PortsToronto ( PT ) , formerly known as the Toronto Port Authority ( TPA ) , is responsible for the management of the harbour of Toronto , Ontario , Canada and the Billy Bishop Toronto City Airport . 

It is a federally - incorporated agency , with directors appointed by three levels of government : the Government of Canada , through the Minister of Transport , Government of Ontario and the City of Toronto . 

The agency changed its name in 2015 to PortsToronto . 

The organization is the successor to the Toronto Harbour Commission ( THC ) which had managed Toronto Harbour since 1911 , paid for through government transfers , harbour and airport fees . 

As part of a Canada - wide plan of the Government of Canada to turn government commissions into self - sufficient agencies , the TPA was set up in 1999 to take over the harbour and airport functions of the THC . 

This was done against the wishes of the City of Toronto , which had been transferring THC harbour lands to City agencies for redevelopment . 

The City had planned to take over the harbour administration as a direct city function . 

The new mission , to be self - sufficient , led the agency to pursue opportunities to increase its revenues , including expansion of the island airport , and the building of a cruise ship terminal . 

The agency built a working relationship with startup airline Porter Airlines and , despite the 2003 cancelling of a permanent bridge to the airport , has been successful in increasing air traffic at the airport to the point where it turned a profit in 2008 . 

It has since built a pedestrian tunnel to the airport . 

In contrast , the cruise ship facility has been little - used after the failure of a ferry to Rochester , New York . 

The TPA 's efforts in partnership with Porter to expand the airport has placed it in opposition to various communities in Toronto and Toronto City Council , which in 2003 cancelled a TPA - planned bridge to the airport . 

Additionally , the agency has been involved in several disputes , including a land dispute , harbour fees and property taxes with the City , and lawsuits over the operation of the airport with Air Canada . 

In 2013 , Porter proposed an expansion of the airport to support the introduction of jet airplanes to the airport . 

Toronto City Council refused to endorse the proposal and sent it to the TPA for study . 

The jet proposal was cancelled in December 2015 after the newly elected Liberal federal government announced it would not renegotiate the operating agreement of the airport to allow jets . 


