Hans Raj Khanna ( 3 July 1912 – 25 February 2008 ) was an advocate , jurist and judge . 

He entered the Indian judiciary in 1952 and subsequently was elevated as a judge to the Supreme Court of India in 1971 where he continued till his resignation in 1977 . 

Two of his judgements form the basis of modern constitutional law in India , even decades after those were delivered . 

He is noted for his minority judgement in the highly publicized Habeas Corpus case during the Indian Emergency , in which the remaining four judges of the bench , Chief Justice A. N. Ray , Justice M. H. Beg , Justice Y. V. Chandrachud and Justice P. N. Bhagwati , agreed with the governmental view that even the fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution of India like the right to life stood abrogated during the period of national emergency . 

Khanna 's judgement was the only dissenting vote , and his opinion , claiming that the Constitution could not possibly intend to make the fundamental rights to life and liberty to be subjected to executive decree for these are inalienable to one 's life and dignified existence , is widely extolled as a show of judicial valor in defending the fundamental rights to life and liberty in the Indian democracy . 

In January 1977 , after delivering the Habeas Corpus judgement , he was superseded for the post of Chief Justice by Justice M. H. Beg at the behest of the then Prime Minister of India Indira Gandhi , despite being the senior - most judge in the Supreme Court and as a result of this , he promptly resigned from the court . 

Khanna had previously authored the basic structure doctrine of the Constitution of India in Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala , which curtailed Parliament 's seemingly unfettered amending power under article 368 , restricting its scope of amendment in areas which were part of the Constitution 's " basic structure " . 

After resigning from the Supreme Court on getting superseded by Justice M. H. Beg to the office of the Chief Justice of India , he served as the central minister of law and justice for a very short period and was later made a combined opposition - sponsored candidate for election as President in 1982 , losing to Zail Singh . 

In 1999 , he was awarded the Padma Vibhushan , the second highest civilian honour given by the Government of India . 


