" Paparazzi " is a song by American singer Lady Gaga from her debut studio album , The Fame ( 2008 ) . 

It was released as the album 's fifth and final single by Interscope Records . 

Gaga wrote and produced the song with Rob Fusari . 

The song portrays Gaga 's struggles in her quest for fame , as well as balancing success and love . 

Musically , it is an uptempo techno - pop and dance - pop song whose lyrics describe a stalker following somebody to grab attention and fame . 

Although released on July 6 , 2009 , in the United Kingdom and four days later in Australia , " LoveGame " initially had been planned as the third single release in the former but deeming its lyrics and music video potentially controversial , it was decided that " Paparazzi " would be released instead . 

" Paparazzi " was critically acclaimed for its " fun - filled " and club - friendly nature . 

It was also commercially successful , reaching top - ten positions in the music charts of Australia , Canada , Ireland , the United Kingdom , and the United States and topping the charts in the Czech Republic and Germany . 

The accompanying music video was directed by Jonas Åkerlund and portrays Gaga as a doomed starlet , hounded by photographers , who is almost killed by her boyfriend . 

It shows her survival , comeback , revenge on her boyfriend , and experiences on the way to fame . 

The video won two MTV Video Music Awards in 2009 for Best Art Direction and Best Special Effects . 

Gaga also performed the song at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards in a performance art piece symbolizing the negative effect of fame leading to death . 

Additional live performances of the song include on The Fame Ball Tour ( 2009 ) , where it was the opening song , on an October 2009 episode of Saturday Night Live and on The Monster Ball Tour ( 2009 – 2011 ) . 

On the first leg of The Monster Ball Tour , she appeared as a Rapunzel - like character ; from the second leg onward , she performed the song alongside a giant anglerfish ( " The Fame Monster " ) who , attempting to devour her , was killed after her leotard shot sparks into the creature . 


