Environmentally , Colombia is a mega - diverse country from its natural land terrain to its biological wildlife . 

Its biodiversity is a result of its geographical location and elevation . 

It is the fourth largest South American country and only country in South America to have coasts in the Pacific and Caribbean ocean . 

Colombia ’s terrain can be divided into six main natural zones : The Caribbean , the Pacific ( including Choco ’s Biogeographic rainforest ) , The Orinoco region , The Amazonia region , the Andean region , and the Insular region . 

52.2 % of the environment is predominately the Andes , Amazon , and Pacific Basins , followed by the Orinoco basin 13.9 % , the Andes and the Caribbean . 

The Tropical Andes , Choco , and the Caribbean are considered biodiversity hotspots which puts these areas at high risk of concentration of colonizing activities . 

Colombia hosts over 1800 species and at least one new species is detected every year . 

Decades of civil war and political unrest has impeded biological and environmental research in Colombia . 

The political unrest in Colombia catalyzes the alteration of land patterns through the cultivation of coca and opium crops , the redirection of extractive activities , and land abandonment in some areas . 

There are many environmental issues in Colombia . 

Issues include deforestation , soil erosion , illicit drug crops grown in national natural reserves by mafias ( not peasants ) , pollution on mayor bodies of water by corporations ( backed up by unregulated / unsupervised policies and by the corruption of local and federal authorities ) among others . 

There is soil and water quality damage from contamination by the use of chemicals in the coca - refining process , spillage of crude oil into the local rivers as a result of guerrilla sabotage of pipelines , and overuse of pesticides , air pollution ( especially in Bogotá ) from vehicle emissions , and the preservation of wildlife . 

Natural hazards include highlands subject to volcanic eruptions , occasional earthquakes , and periodic droughts . 


