Three Forms ( BH 72 ) is an abstract sculpture by Barbara Hepworth , completed in 1935 . 

The sculpture was one of the first works completed by Hepworth after the birth of her triplets with Ben Nicholson in October 1934 . 

It marks a point of departure in her style : her earlier abstract works are based on the human form , but Three Forms is more purely abstract , reduced to simple geometric shapes with little colour . 

Her subsequent work continued in a more formal , abstract and non - representational vein . 

Hepworth wrote in 1952 that she became " absorbed in the relationships in space , in size and texture and weight , as well as the tensions between forms " . 

The work consists of three rounded elements positioned on a flat rectangular base , all in polished Seravezza marble ( largely white , but small brown marks , grey flecks , and pale grey graining are visible on close inspection ) . 

Each element has a precise shape and size , and they are arranged in a similarly precise triangular relationship . 

The original base has been replaced , but the spatial arrangement of each element remains the same , with a spherical element placed at a distance from two larger and elongated oval forms , the smaller of which lies flat and the larger of which rests on its long edge , both aligned with the longer edge of the rectangular base . 

The diameter of the sphere reflects one of the dimensions of both larger elements , each of which also shares a dimension of ( 1.5 times as large ) . 

The medium spheroid measures and the larger one is . 

Each object was shaped by hand and so is slightly imperfect . 

The choice of three forms - two alike and one different - may be connected with the birth of Hepworth 's triplets - two girls and one boy . 

The abstract sculpture in a pure white recalls the contemporary architecture of Le Corbusier , and may also have been inspired by Hepworth 's visits to the studios of Brancusi and Arp on a visit to France with Nicholson in 1932 . 

Hepworth later accepted criticism from physicist John Desmond Bernal that the elements are all positively curved , and suggested that the work could have been improved by the sphere being replaced by a cylinder . 

The whole work measures and weighs . 

It was exhibited at the " 7&5 " exhibition in 1935 and the " Abstract and Concrete Art " exhibition in 1936 . 

It was bought from Hepworth by Mr and Mrs J.R. Marcus Brumwell in late 1935 , who donated it to the Tate Gallery in 1964 . 

It is now displayed at Tate Britain . 


