Rust is a survival video game developed and published by Facepunch Studios in February 2018 for Microsoft Windows , OS X , and Linux . 

The game has only a multiplayer mode . 

Rust was created initially as a clone of DayZ , a popular mod for ARMA 2 with crafting elements like those found in Minecraft . 

The objective of Rust is to survive in the wilderness using gathered or stolen materials . 

They must successfully manage their hunger , thirst and health or risk dying . 

While there are bears and wolves , given the game is multiplayer - only , the primary threat is other players . 

Combat uses firearms and primitive weapons such as bows . 

In addition , attack helicopters , a vehicle controlled by non - player characters , will occasionally fly around attacking heavily - armed players though they can be taken down with persistence . 

The game features crafting , though initially only limited options are offered . 

To stay protected players must build bases or join clans with others to improve their survivability . 

Raiding is commonplace and done more frequently by large clans . 

Rust was first released in December 2013 to Steam 's Early Access program while in its alpha state . 

During further development the gameplay was changed significantly . 

Dangerous wildlife replaced zombies as the primary environmental threat and several fundamental revisions to the crafting system were released . 

2014 saw the game ported to the Unity 5 game engine receiving substantial graphical changes . 

Around this time Rust introduced skin colour and then gender . 

The game continues to receive updates post - release . 

Throughout Rusts alpha release critical reviews were mixed with many comparisons made to other survival games . 

Rust was commonly explained as a mixture of DayZ and Minecraft . 

During this period reviewers frequently noted the unfinished nature of Rust . 

During its pre - release phase critics praised the game 's concept and gameplay . 

By March 2017 Rust had sold over five million copies . 

After being fully released the game received mixed reviews from critics . 

Those who enjoyed the game highlighted the player vs player combat and the survival aspects . 

Reviewers were critical of the constant need to grind for materials and the harsh beginner experience . 


