Sebestyanos ( reigned c. 1703 - c. 1718 ) was a ruler of Shewa , an important Amhara noble of Ethiopia . 

He was one of the sons of Negasi Krestos . 

Abir states that he ruled for 15 years , although noting that Harris claims he ruled for 25 years , and d'Hericourt 33 . 

According to Donald Levine , Sebestyanos ' father , Negasi Krestos , proclaimed in his will that his oldest son Akawa would inherit his " throne " . 

Sebestyanos would receive his spear , silver cutlass , and gilded shield . 

Land and money would go to his other five sons . 

However , drought and famine afflicted Shewa : the nobility deposed Akawa in favor of his younger son Daña . 

Dreading the fighting that he knew would follow , Sebestyanos fled Menz to the safety of Merhabete , where he served the governor . 

Meanwhile , his relatives grew dissatisfied with his brother Daña , and successfully lured Sebestyanos back to Menz , where his victories over the neighboring Oromo inevitably led him to fight his brother . 

He defeated Daña and proclaimed himself ruler of Menz . 

Pankhurst states that during his reign Shewa clearly expanded its boundaries at the expense of their Oromo rivals . 

As a result , he founded a number of towns , including Doqaqit , ' Ayne , and Eyabar . 

Although his father Negasi Krestos failed to gain the grant of the title of Meridazmach from Emperor Iyasus I , Sebestyanos assumed the title . 

He continued the conquests of his father in upper Yifat . 

According to Levine , Sebestyanos died " by a curious accident " . 

His son Qedami Qal had been rebuilding some of the churches that had been destroyed by Ahmad Gragn , one of which was in Doqaqit dedicated to St. Michael . 

Part of the ceremony required the tabot in the church in ' Ayne , where his father was living , and it was secretly removed to Doqaqit . 

Sebestyanos understood this as an act of rebellion , and set forth to capture and discipline his son ; however , in the ensuing battle one of Qedami Qal 's servants accidentally killed the Meridazmach . 


