The Zoo Interchange is a freeway Interchange on the west side of Milwaukee , Wisconsin . 

It forms the junction of I-94 , I-894 , I-41 , US 41 and US   45 . 

It is the busiest and one of the oldest interchanges in the state . 

It is nicknamed because of its location near the Milwaukee County Zoo . 

The control cities at the interchange are Downtown Milwaukee to the east , Chicago to the south , Madison to the west and Fond du Lac to the north . 

Originally completed in 1963 , the interchange was a major component in the freeway system being developed in Milwaukee and southeastern Wisconsin and formed an important link with the Interstate system . 

It was considered a wonder of engineering at the time . 

The design included exits on both the left and right sides of the roadways , and drivers exited depending which side their destination road was on . 

Owing to the dangers of this design and the deterioration of the interchange , a reconstruction was considered in the early 2000s . 

Plans set reconstruction in 2015 , but it was advanced by Governor Jim Doyle to 2012 , then delayed due to lack of available funding . 

Work finally began in 2014 with an expected completion in 2018 . 

However , further budget issues delayed the completion to 2022 . 

The complexity and scale of the reconstruction project necessitated advanced methods of construction . 

It marked the first time that Wisconsin used drilled shaft foundations to build bridge supports and the first time that 3D computer modelling was used . 

In 2014 the interchange became the first place in the United States where orange pavement markings were tested . 

The interchange reconstruction has sparked much controversy and political polarization . 

Opponents have criticized its extremely high $ 1.7 billion cost . 

It also continues the area trend of investing heavily in freeways while neglecting all other forms of transportation . 

This resulted in the Milwaukee Innercity Congregations Allied for Hope and the Black Health Coalition of Wisconsin filing a lawsuit against the department of transportation in 2012 . 

It was resolved in 2014 with the state agreeing to give additional aid to the public transit system . 


