The flag of Puerto Rico represents and symbolizes the island of Puerto Rico and its people . 

The origins of the current flag of Puerto Rico , adopted by the commonwealth of Puerto Rico in 1952 , can be traced to 1868 , when the first Puerto Rican flag , " The Revolutionary Flag of Lares " , was conceived by Dr. Ramón Emeterio Betances and embroidered by Mariana " Brazos de Oro " Bracetti . 

This flag was used in the short - lived Puerto Rican revolt against Spanish rule in the island , known as " El Grito de Lares " . 

Juan de Mata Terreforte , an exiled veteran of " El Grito de Lares " and Vice - President of the Cuban Revolutionary Committee , in New York City , adopted the flag of Lares as the flag of Puerto Rico until 1895 , when the current design , modeled after the Cuban flag , was unveiled and adopted by the 59 Puerto Rican exiles of the Cuban Revolutionary committee . 

The new flag , which consisted of five equal horizontal bands of red ( top and bottom ) alternating with white ; a blue isosceles triangle based on the hoist side bears a large , white , five - pointed star in the center , was first flown in Puerto Rico on March 24 , 1897 , during the " Intentona de Yauco " revolt . 

The use and display of the Puerto Rican flag was outlawed and the only flags permitted to be flown in Puerto Rico were the Spanish flag ( 1492 to 1898 ) and the flag of the United States ( 1898 to 1952 ) . 

In 1952 , the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico adopted the 1895 flag design as its official standard . 

The color of the triangle that was used by the administration of Luis Muñoz Marín was the dark blue . 

In 1995 , the government of Puerto Rico issued a regulation regarding the use of the Puerto Rican flag titled : " Reglamento sobre el Uso en Puerto Rico de la Bandera del Estado Libre Asociado de Puerto Rico " , in which the government specifies the colors to be used but does not specify any official color tones or shades . 

Therefore , it is not uncommon to see the flag of Puerto Rico with different shades of blue displayed in the island . 

Several Puerto Rican flags , with darker shades than sky blue were aboard the Space Shuttle Discovery during its flight into outer space on March 15 , 2009 . 


