Football in Australia refers to football codes played in the country including Australian rules football , rugby league , rugby union , association football ( soccer ) , American football and Gaelic football . 

Professional football is played in Australia for four of these codes , with the leagues involved including the Australian Football League ( Aussie rules ) , the National Rugby League ( Rugby League ) , Super Rugby ( rugby union ) , and the A - League ( soccer ) . 

Professional football has been televised for many years , with Australian rules football and rugby league being the most popular codes on television . 

Australia has a number of national football teams encompassing several football codes including Australian rules , rugby league , rugby union , soccer , Gaelic and gridiron . 

Australian football is the most popular sport in Australia , followed by cricket , association football and rugby league . 

Some form of football was first played in Australia in 1829 . 

By the 1860s , Australian rules and rugby union clubs were established in Melbourne and Sydney . 

Soccer or " British Association Football " as it was referred to would arrive in the colony by 1870 , with the first official match played in 1880 . 

Intercolonial football matches were being played by 1879 . 

Women 's football matches were being organised by the 1920s . 

National football governing bodies were being established in the same time period . 

The regional football code divide in Australia was still present in the 1980s , with rugby league being the dominant code in Queensland and New South Wales while Australian rules football dominated in the rest of the country , whilst still being played throughout all of Australia and with soccer being played in ethnic enclaves . 

Attempts to move outside these traditional boundaries were largely unsuccessful . 

The different codes attract different participation levels that reflect historical trends . 

In 2011 , soccer had more junior participants nationally than any other football code with Australian rules the second - most played . 

Historically , soccer drew largely from minority ethnic groups , and rugby league and rugby union drew from populations in Queensland and New South Wales . 

Australian rules football attracted participants primarily from the remaining states and territories but also throughout all of Australia . 

Australian rules also has had one of the highest rates of participation amongst Australia 's indigenous communities . 


