Le Gros et le maigre ( English title : The Fat and the Lean ) is a short silent , comic film written and directed by Roman Polanski in 1961 . 

Polanski shot this short film just after graduating from The National Film School in Łódź in 1959 ; it was made in France and was Polanski 's last film before the international breakthrough of his 1962 debut feature , Knife in the Water . 

The Fat and the Lean features the music of Krzysztof Komeda , who composed the scores for all but one of the director 's films between Two Men and a Wardrobe ( 1958 ) and Rosemary 's Baby ( 1968 ) . 

In The Fat and the Lean , Polanski plays a barefoot slave playing a flute and beating a drum to entertain his master who rocks in a rocking chair in front of his mansion in the countryside overlooking Paris . 

The slave wipes his master 's brow , feeds him , washes his feet , shades him from the sun with an umbrella , and holds a urinal for him , all the while longing to escape to Paris , which we can see in the distance . 

A humorous psychological game between the master and the slave transpires whereby the master attempts to prevent the slave from escaping to Paris . 

The inspiration for the film appears to be the master - slave relationship between Pozzo and Lucky in Samuel Beckett 's Waiting for Godot . 

Indeed , as with many of Polanski 's early short films , the influence of Beckett and the Theater of the Absurd is very strong . 

The Fat and the Lean has been interpreted as allegorical work expressing Polanski 's youthful desire to flee the repressive communist regime in postwar Poland and escape to the West . 

Portions of the film were featured in Marina Zenovich 's controversial 2008 documentary , . 

In the context of the documentary , the situation depicted in The Fat in the Lean seems a bitterly ironic commentary on Polanski 's legal troubles during 1977 — almost fifteen years after he had left Poland and was living and working in Los Angeles as a successful Hollywood director . 

The slave tries to flee to Paris ; the master gives the slave a goat in order to persuade him to stay . 

But the goat is chained to the slave 's ankle , and becomes so inconvenient that the slave tries to flee once more . 

The master frees the goat and unfastens the chain , and the slave is so overjoyed that he remains to serve the master with renewed vigor and enthusiasm . 

If there is an allegory here it might be about human nature and subjugation . 


