The Imperial Trans - Antarctic Expedition ( 1914 – 17 ) , also known as the Endurance Expedition , is considered the last major expedition of the Heroic Age of Antarctic Exploration . 

Conceived by Sir Ernest Shackleton , the expedition was an attempt to make the first land crossing of the Antarctic continent . 

After the conquest of the South Pole by Roald Amundsen in 1911 , this crossing remained , in Shackleton 's words , the " one great main object of Antarctic journeyings " . 

The expedition failed to accomplish this objective , but became recognised instead as an epic feat of endurance . 

Shackleton had served in the Antarctic in Captain Scott 's Discovery Expedition , 1901 – 04 , and had led the British Antarctic Expedition , 1907 – 09 . 

In this new venture he proposed to sail to the Weddell Sea and to land a shore party near Vahsel Bay , in preparation for a transcontinental march via the South Pole to the Ross Sea . 

A supporting group , the Ross Sea party , would meanwhile establish camp in McMurdo Sound , and from there lay a series of supply depots across the Ross Ice Shelf to the foot of the Beardmore Glacier . 

These depots would be essential for the transcontinental party 's survival , as the group would not be able to carry enough provisions for the entire crossing . 

The expedition required two ships : Endurance under Shackleton for the Weddell Sea party , and Aurora , under Aeneas Mackintosh , for the Ross Sea party . 

Endurance became beset in the ice of the Weddell Sea before reaching Vahsel Bay , and drifted northward , held in the pack ice , throughout the Antarctic winter of 1915 . 

Eventually the ship was crushed and sunk , stranding its 28-man complement on the ice . 

After months spent in makeshift camps as the ice continued its northwards drift , the party took to the lifeboats to reach the inhospitable , uninhabited Elephant Island . 

Shackleton and five others then made an open - boat journey in the James Caird to reach South Georgia . 

From there , Shackleton was eventually able to mount a rescue of the men waiting on Elephant Island and bring them home without loss of life . 

On the other side of the continent , the Ross Sea party overcame great hardships to fulfil its mission . 

Aurora was blown from her moorings during a gale and was unable to return , leaving the shore party marooned without proper supplies or equipment . 

Nevertheless , the depots were laid , but three lives were lost before the party 's eventual rescue . 


