Sustainability , as defined by the 1983 Brundtland Commission , formally the World Commission on Environment and Development ( WCED ) , states “ development which implies meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs ” . 

As sustainability gains support worldwide , universities across the United States have begun to take initiatives toward more sustainable campuses . 

Alongside student - run projects , drastic changes in administration , energy efficiency , and food and recycling have sprung up in Ivy League schools and liberal arts colleges alike . 

The American College and University Presidents’ Climate Commitment is an evident effort to address global climate disruption consisting of a network of colleges and universities that have made institutional commitments to reduce net greenhouse gas emissions on campus , and to promote the research and educational efforts of higher education to prepare society to re - stabilize the earth ’s climate . 

Oberlin College in Ohio features the first Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design ( LEED ) Gold certified music facility , while Yale University in New Haven , Connecticut has pledged that all new buildings will meet these same Gold standards . 

LEED is an internationally recognized green building certification system created by the U.S. Green Building Council . 

This ranking system offers an incentive for building owners to implement green design , construction , efficient operations and eco - friendly solutions over the years . 

Buildings are responsible for about 40 % of total carbon emissions . 

And so by including these green buildings , schools are decreasing carbon emissions , conserving water and energy and saving money each month . 

Princeton and Ohio University have both made strides toward cutting yearly carbon emissions on campus ; While Florida Gulf Coast University has implemented solar energy throughout various buildings . 

A number of universities across the U.S. have created bicycle stations providing rentals to students and staff alike in an effort to reduce the burning of fossil fuels and automobile congestion as well . 

Car sharing like rechargeable Zipcars and reliable public transit have also helped incentivize more eco - friendly schools . 

These changes towards sustainability offer colleges a moral and ethical fulfillment as well as economic and financial benefits . 

Likewise , these universities are responsible for training future generations in sustainable practice . 

By offering students these more Earth friendly options , faculty and staff can ensure the well being of lands and resources for generations to come . 


