Doug is an American animated television series created by Jim Jinkins . 

The show focuses on the early adolescent life of its title character , Douglas " Doug " Funnie , who experiences common predicaments while attending school in his new hometown of Bluffington . 

Doug narrates each story in his journal , and the show incorporates many imagination sequences . 

The series addresses numerous topics , including trying to fit in , platonic and romantic relationships , self - esteem , bullying , and rumors . 

Many episodes center on Doug 's attempts to impress his classmate and crush , Patti Mayonnaise . 

Jinkins developed Doug from drawings in his sketchbook that he created over the course of the 1980s . 

Doug , a mostly autobiographical creation , was largely inspired by Jinkins 's childhood growing up in Virginia , with most characters in the series being based on real individuals . 

He first pitched Doug as a children 's book to uninterested publishers before Nickelodeon purchased the show . 

Following this , the series underwent further development , in which Jinkins meticulously detailed every aspect of the show 's setting . 

Jinkins was insistent that the series have a purpose , and instructed writers to annotate each script with a moral . 

The show 's unusual soundtrack consists largely of mouth noises . 

The series premiered in 1991 on the cable network Nickelodeon , as the channel 's first original animated content alongside Rugrats and The Ren & Stimpy Show . 

The series ' original run consisted of 52 episodes over four seasons that were broadcast from 1991 to 1994 . 

In 1996 , Disney acquired the series , retooling it with several creative changes , thus renaming it Brand Spanking New ! 

Doug ( retitled Disney 's Doug in 1998 ) , and airing it for three years on ABC 's Saturday morning lineup . 

It became a top - rated show , inspiring various books , merchandise , a live musical stage show , and a theatrical feature , Doug 's 1st Movie , released at the series ' conclusion in 1999 . 


