Niko Nirvi ( born 1961 ) is a long - term major icon in the Finnish gaming world . 

He is well known for writing computer game reviews since the 1980s in MikroBitti , C = Lehti and the computer game yearbooks that were predecessors of the Pelit magazine . 

He has worked for the latter since its founding in 1992 , and holds a column in addition to making reviews and other reports . 

Nirvi began his career as a game reviewer in 1986 on pages of MikroBitti . 

He had made a bet with his friend that he could get his review published in the magazine . 

He sent two reviews , and Uridium and the former was published ( they already had one Uridium review ) . 

Nirvi wrote reviews and a regular column about new games for Mikrobitti and became the " game editor " of the magazine . 

He also wrote reviews for C = Lehti . 

When Pelit , that concentrated solely on gaming , was founded by the same publisher , Nirvi joined its ranks as an editor , and has written a regular column for each issue . 

Trademarks of his are signing with " Nnirvi " or a variation , and never showing his face in the magazine . 

Photos of him are always either covered or edited in a way that the face is unrecognizable . 

His personal picture in his articles is usually a gaming or movie character whose face is blurred ( for example Master Chief ) while the rest of the crew 's articles feature their real faces . 

Wallu 's drawings of Nirvi depict him as a bearded man with Spock 's Vulcan ears . 

According to Nirvi , his avoidance of publicity started in 1988 , when a MikroBitti reader asked for a photograph of him , which Nirvi instantly declined , and this avoidance has strengthened ever since . 

Nirvi 's style is typically humorous , and sometimes unorthodox . 

Some of Nirvi 's most unconventional reviews were published in C = Lehti . 

The review of Domark 's motorboat game Hydra was written as a nursery rhyme from the beginning to the end . 

The review of Battle Island contained just two words : ” Paska Commando - klooni . " 

( " shitty Commando clone " ) . 


