Likkutei Sichos , literally , " Collected Talks " ( ) contains both the scope and the core of the teachings of the Lubavitcher Rebbe , Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson , and is the most authoritative source text for the Rebbe 's unique , original , and often revolutionary explanation of Judaism . 

Likkutei Sichos covers a range of topics including ideas in Jewish philosophy and theology , biblical and Talmudic commentary on biblical , kabbalistic expositions , moral and practical directives , and perspectives on world events . 

The essays were transcribed from the public talks given by Rabbi Schneerson and are compiled in over three dozen volumes , arranged by the weekly Torah portion and special occasions in the Jewish and Hasidic calendar . 

Likkutei Sichos contains both the scope and the core of the Lubavitcher Rebbe ’s teachings , and is the most authoritative sorce text for the Rebbe 's unique , original , and often revolutionary explanation of Judaism . 

Rabbi Schneerson 's primary vehicle for conveying his teachings were the farbrengens held on Shabbat , the festivals , and special occasions in the Chabad Lubavitch calendar , at which he would speak for many hours . 

Of the many of thousands of talks that Schneerson delivered , those that were the most basic to his weltanschauung and message were compiled in the Likkutei Sichot , which originally appeared in weekly pamphlets . 

He reviewed and extensively edited each of these transcriptions before it went to press , making the Likkutei Sichot the authoritative medium with which to disseminate his teachings . 

The volumes of Likkutei Sichos are published by the Lubavitch Publication House Kehot Publication Society . 

The edited Sichos represent much of Schneerson 's central teachings , and unique spiritual voice for the generation , with other major works being the deeper , mystical Maamarim ( Hasidic discourses ) , unedited talks , personal correspondence etc . 

The nature of his leadership and thought marks a culminating fulfillment of Hasidic history , representing the fullest measure of the Hasidic ideal to disseminate the " wellsprings " of Chassidus in the widest and most accessible forms , and united with the other dimensions of Judaism . 

The many aspects of Likkutei Sichos present the most accessible form of the Rebbe 's thought , and its practical application . 


