The SpaceX South Texas Launch Site is a spaceport being built at Boca Chica Village near Brownsville , Texas for the private use of Space Exploration Technologies Corporation ( SpaceX ) . 

Its purpose is " to provide SpaceX an exclusive launch site that would allow the company to accommodate its launch manifest and meet tight launch windows . " 

The launch site was originally intended to support launches of the Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy launch vehicles as well as " a variety of reusable suborbital launch vehicles " , but SpaceX changed its plans by 2018 and indicated that the site would be used exclusively for BFR . 

SpaceX CEO Elon Musk indicated in 2014 that he expected " commercial astronauts , private astronauts , to be departing from South Texas , " and he foresaw launching spacecraft to Mars from there . 

During 2012 through mid-2014 , SpaceX was considering seven potential locations around the United States for the new commercial launch pad . 

For much of this period , a parcel of land adjacent to Boca Chica Beach near Brownsville , Texas was the leading candidate location , during an extended period while the US Federal Aviation Administration ( FAA ) conducted an extensive environmental assessment on the use of the Texas location as a launch site . 

Also during this period , SpaceX began acquiring land in the area , purchasing approximately and leasing by July 2014 . 

SpaceX announced in August 2014 , that they had selected the location near Brownsville as the location for the new non - governmental launch site , after the final environmental assessment completed and environmental agreements were in place by July 2014 . 

When completed , it will become SpaceX 's fourth active launch facility , following three launch locations that are leased from the US government . 

In April 2013 , the best - case estimate was that the first launch might take place in 2016 or 2017 , SpaceX conducted a groundbreaking ceremony on the new launch facility in September 2014 , and soil preparation began in October 2015 . , any launches from the site would be no earlier than 2019 . 


