Rocket Cottage is an album by British folk rock band Steeleye Span . 

This was the band 's ninth album , and the second produced by Mike Batt . 

It was hoped that the album would cement the band 's popular and commercial success , building on their breakthrough into the UK Top 10 with their previous album All Around My Hat and its title track , which reached # 5 on the UK singles chart . 

Unfortunately , Rocket Cottage was a victim of bad timing - by the time it was released , the sudden explosion of the British Punk scene saw audience tastes in the UK rapidly shift away from formerly popular genres like folk rock and progressive rock , and groups that previously been critical favourites , like Steeleye Span and Yes , soon found themselves being derided as " dinosaurs " . 

Rocket Cottage failed to break into the Top 40 , and it was the last album recorded by the " classic " mid - Seventies lineup of the group , with Peter Knight and Bob Johnson both subsequently leaving the group . 

The album is perhaps the band 's most rock - influenced album , with very prominent guitars and a strong rhythm section . 

Some fans consider this one of the band 's best efforts , pointing to strong tracks like " London " , " Fighting for Strangers " , " Sir James the Rose " , and " Orfeo / Nathan 's Reel " , the first three of which became classics of the band and fan favorites . 

Others , however , find the album erratic , complaining that the band 's rhythm section tends to overwhelm the vocals , particularly on " Orfeo " , " The Twelve Witches " , and ( to a lesser extent ) " The Brown Girl " . 

Oddly for an instrumental piece , " Nathan 's Reel " simply fades out . 

The most peculiar decision was the inclusion of an unrehearsed version of " Camptown Racetrack " ; years later Maddy Prior remarked , " I ca n't think what we were thinking of with that . " 

This was the band 's ninth album in five years , and many feel that their exhaustion is evident . 

Peter Knight has said that the band was being pressured to write and adapt music for the commercial market , which led to considerable dissatisfaction among the band members . 

Both he and Bob Johnson were seriously considering leaving the band , particularly because they wanted to work on a musical version of The King of Elfland 's Daughter , Chrysalis Records agreed to allow them to record that album if they agreed to record ' Rocket ' . 

Lacking any interest in the album that Knight and Johnson produced , Chrysalis made little effort to promote the album , and Knight and Johnson chose to depart the band after ' Rocket ' was released . 


