A saint ’s name is the name of a saint given to individuals at their baptism or confirmation within the Catholic Church . 

It is believed that the saint whose name is chosen will serve as a special patron to protect , guide , and be the heavenly intercessor for , the individual who bears his or her name . 

The custom of giving the name of a saint originated in France and Germany during the Middle Ages and is still popular in continental Europe . 

In many English - speaking countries , however , it is more common for the saint 's name to be adopted upon Confirmation , in which case it would usually not be part of one 's legal name . 

Under the current Code of Canon Law , Canon 855 of the Code of Canon Law states " Parents , sponsors and parish priests are to take care that a name is not given which is foreign to Christian sentiment , " which would simply prohibit a baptismal name being something in the vein of " Satan , " " Lucifer " or " Death . " 

However , this was not always the case ; in the 1917 Code of Canon Law , Canon 761 required pastors to ensure the baptismal name was a Christian name such as " Christian , " " Grace " or " Faith " - hence what is now called a given name was once referred to as a Christian name , originating with the pagans of Europe who discarded their pagan names for Biblical ones when they converted to Christianity and participated in baptism - or that an additional saint 's name must be given when the former is impossible . 

In some cases , parents may give both a saint 's name and a secular name to a child , allowing them to use the saint 's name for religious purposes and the secular name for all other purposes . 

This is especially common in cultures , such as in South Korea , where traditional given names do not line up with Catholic saints ' names ; many Catholics in English - speaking countries of Korean descent use a Korean forename as well as a saints ' name . 

In some countries , the saint 's day of the person 's name is celebrated as a birthday is in other countries . 

A child may also be named after the saint whose feast is the child 's birthday . 


