The University of Oxford is a collegiate research university in Oxford , England . 

There is evidence of teaching as far back as 1096 , making it the oldest university in the English - speaking world and the world 's second - oldest university in continuous operation . 

It grew rapidly from 1167 when Henry II banned English students from attending the University of Paris . 

After disputes between students and Oxford townsfolk in 1209 , some academics fled north - east to Cambridge where they established what became the University of Cambridge . 

The two " ancient universities " are frequently jointly referred to as " Oxbridge " . 

The history and influence of the University of Oxford has made it one of the most prestigious universities in the world . 

The university is made up of 38 constituent colleges , and a range of academic departments which are organised into four divisions . 

All the colleges are self - governing institutions within the university , each controlling its own membership and with its own internal structure and activities . 

It does not have a main campus , and its buildings and facilities are scattered throughout the city centre . 

Undergraduate teaching at Oxford is organised around weekly tutorials at the colleges and halls , supported by classes , lectures , seminars , and laboratory work provided by university faculties and departments ; some postgraduate teaching includes tutorials organised by faculties and departments . 

It operates the world 's oldest university museum , as well as the largest university press in the world and the largest academic library system nationwide . 

The university is consistently cited as among the world 's best . 

Oxford has educated many notable alumni , including 29 Nobel laureates , 27 prime ministers of the United Kingdom and many heads of state and government around the world . 

As of 2017 , 69 Nobel Prize winners , 3 Fields Medalists , and 6 Turing Award winners have studied , worked , or held visiting fellowships at the University of Oxford . 

Its alumni have won 160 Olympic medals . 

Oxford is the home of the Rhodes Scholarship , one of the world 's oldest international scholarships . 


