" Not happy , Jan ! " 

was a line delivered by comedian Deborah Kennedy in an Australian television advertisement from the year 2000 . 

Due to the ad 's popularity in Australia , the line entered the cultural vernacular as a catch phrase used to express a feeling of discontent . 

The television commercial from which the phrase originated was created by advertising agency Clemenger BBDO Melbourne for Sensis ( the directories arm of Telstra ) , to promote the upcoming deadline for advertising in Australia 's Yellow Pages . 

In the commercial , a businesswoman ( Kennedy ) has just discovered that one of her staff ( Jan ) has neglected to book an ad in the upcoming year 's Yellow Pages . 

Realising they will have to wait another year , she calmly goes through some anger management techniques . 

When Jan runs away from work , Kennedy 's unnamed character talks to herself and counts to ten before opening the window and shouting " Not happy , Jan ! " 

towards the fleeing figure of Jan. 

The phrase was coined by Kennedy on the day of shooting . 

The ad ended up becoming lucrative for Australia 's Yellow Pages with the words " Closing Soon . 

Call 132378 " appearing on television from 2000 to 2003 . 

Since the advertisement , " Not happy , Jan " has entered the Australian vernacular to express displeasure , particularly at a problem caused by another 's negligence or incompetence . 

In the time immediately following the advertisement , it was usually said in a manner which mimicked the advertisement , but today is usually spoken with a casual , slightly stern tone . 

Women named Jan were particularly targeted . 

The phrase was co - opted by the unsuccessful ' Not happy , John ! ' 

campaign , opposing the re - election of Australian Prime Minister John Howard in the 2004 federal election . 

The title of the campaign also became the title of a book detailing the negative aspects of the Howard Government . 

Both " Not happy , Jan , " and " Not happy , John " , are common noms de plume used in short letters to newspaper editors . 

The commercial was featured on the Australian TV series 20 to 1 as one of the best Australian commercials of all time . 

On 6 October 2009 , the catch phrase " Not happy , Jan ! " 

was rated as best catch phrase in Australia on the ill - fated Australian TV series of 2009 The Spearman Experiment . 


