Developmentalism is an economic theory which states that the best way for less developed economies to develop is through fostering a strong and varied internal market and imposing high tariffs on imported goods . 

Developmentalism is a cross - disciplinary school of thought that gave way to an ideology of development as the key strategy towards economic prosperity . 

The school of thought was , in part , a reaction to the United States’ struggle to contain communism and deal with national liberation movements throughout Asia and Africa . 

Developmentalism in the international economic context can be understood as consisting of a set of ideas which converge to place economic development at the center of political endeavors and institutions and also as a means through which to establish legitimacy in the political sphere . 

Adherents to the theory of developmentalism hold that the development of economic success in developing nations ( particularly in Latin America and East Asia ) grants legitimate leadership to political figures who would not otherwise have the benefit of a social consensus regarding who should lead and how they should do conduct themselves in the international sphere . 

Developmentalists believe that national autonomy for ' Third World ' countries can be achieved and maintained through the utilization of external resources by those countries in a capitalist system . 

To those professed ends , developmentalism was the paradigm used in an attempt to reverse the negative impact that the international economy was having on developing countries in the 1950s – 60s , at the time during which Latin American countries had begun to implement import substitution strategies . 

Using this theory , economic development is framed by modern - day Western criteria : economic success is gauged in terms of capitalistic notions of what it means for a country to become developed , autonomous , and legitimate . 

The theory is based on the assumption that not only are there similar stages to development for all countries but also that there is a linear movement from one stage to another that goes from traditional or primitive to modern or industrialized . 

Though initially the preserve of emerging economies in the Asia Pacific area , Latin America and Africa , the notion of developmentalism has resurfaced more recently in the developed world - notably in the economic planks of ' unorthodox ' policy makers such as Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders in the United States . 


