The Office of Global Women 's Issues is located within the United States Department of State , and is headed by the Ambassador - at - Large for Global Women 's Issues , as of September 2013 , Catherine M. Russell . 

Melanne Verveer was the first Ambassador - at - Large for Global Women 's Issues . 

The Office of Global Women 's Issues works to ensure that the rights of women and girls are fully integrated into the formulation and conduct of United States foreign policy . 

Working with the White House , USAID , the Department of Defense , and other agencies , as well as with civil society and the private sector , the Department of State has launched multiple and wide - ranging global initiatives to promote women ’s social and economic development , integrate women into peace and security building , address and prevent gender - based violence , and ensure women ’s full participation in civic and political life . 

The Obama Administration made advancing the status of women and girls a central element of U.S. foreign policy , as articulated in the Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review and the Department of State ’s Policy Guidance on Promoting Gender Equality to Achieve Our National Security and Foreign Policy Objectives . 

Further , on January 30 , 2013 , President Obama signed a Presidential Memorandum on gender equality , ensuring that an Ambassador - at - Large for Global Women ’s Issues will continue to play a leading role in U.S. efforts to advance women ’s rights around the world . 

And in March 2016 , the Obama Administration launched the U.S. 

Global Strategy to Empower Adolescent Girls , to protect the rights of this age group via international legal and policy frameworks . 

Secretary of State Hillary Clinton noted in connection with the Office of Global Women 's Issues , " When the Security Council passed Resolution 1325 , we tried to make a very clear statement , that women are still largely shut out of the negotiations that seek to end conflicts , even though women and children are the primary victims of 21st century conflict . " 

Secretary of State John Kerry said " No country can get ahead if it leaves half of its people behind . 

This is why the United States believes gender equality is critical to our shared goals of prosperity , stability , and peace , and why investing in women and girls worldwide is critical to U.S. foreign policy . " 

Women 's issues are also a major focus of the United Nations Organization . 


