Below is a list of the neighbourhoods and suburbs of Belgrade , the capital city of Serbia . 

Each neighbourhood or suburb is categorised by the municipality in which it is situated . 

The City of Belgrade is divided into seventeen municipalities , of which ten are urban and seven suburban . 

Six of these ten urban municipalities are completely within the bounds of Belgrade City Proper , while the remaining four have both urban and suburban parts . 

The seven suburban municipalities , on the other hand , are completely located within suburban bounds . 

Municipalities of the City of Belgrade are officially divided into local communities ( Serbian : месна заједница / mesna zajednica ) . 

These are arbitrary administrative units which on occasion correspond to the neighbourhoods and suburbs located in a municipality , though usually they do n't . 

Their boundaries often change as the communities merge with each other , split from one another , or change names , so the historical and traditional names of the neighbourhoods survive . 

In the majority of cases , especially in the old urban areas of Belgrade , the neighbourhoods and suburbs do n't have firm geographical or administrative boundaries . 

This sometimes causes confusion even among Belgraders , as many have different views on where one neighbourhood or suburb ends and another begins . 

Cases of this kind of contention include : 

Boundaries shaped through history , in many cases overlapping ( Palilula – Hadžipopovac – Profesorska Kolonija ) . 

Sub - neighbourhoods or parts of a larger neighbourhood ( Čukarica – Banovo Brdo – Čukarička Padina ) . 

Different names for the same areas ( Englezovac – Savinac – Vračar ) . 

Neighbourhoods of the same name stretching outside their own municipalities ( sometimes even with the same name : extreme west of the neighbourhood of Palilula ( Jevremovac ) belongs to the municipality of Stari Grad , not the municipality of Palilula ) . 

Some are completely located in another municipality ( Selo Rakovica is located in the municipality of Voždovac , not in the municipality of Rakovica ) . 

Inhabitants of one neighbourhood , even though geographically belonging to one area , consider themselves inhabitants of another ( Bežanija – Bežanijski Blokovi ) . 


