Elections in Lithuania gives information on elections and election results in Lithuania . 

Voters in Lithuania elect members of the parliament , the president , members of the municipal councils and mayors , as well as delegates to the European Parliament . 

Lithuanian citizens can also vote in mandatory or consultative referendums . 

71 of the members in the 141-seat parliament , elected to a four - year term , are elected in single - seat constituencies , in a majority vote . 

The remaining 70 members are elected in a nationwide election based on proportional representation . 

The structure of the elections means that a large number of parties is represented in the parliament and coalition governments are common . 

The head of the state - the president - is elected to a five - year term in a majority vote , with the president eligible for up to two terms in office . 

More than 1500 municipal council members are elected in local elections to four - year terms , with the majority of the seats allocated using proportional representation and the mayors elected directly by residents in a majority vote . 

The Lithuanian representatives in the European Parliament , currently numbering 11 , are elected using proportional representation every five years . 

12 referendums have been organized in Lithuania , initiated by either citizens or the parliament . 

Of these , only four have seen the referendum question approved in a referendum deemed to have taken place . 

Voting in elections is generally open to all citizens of Lithuania who are at least 18 years of age . 

Citizens of other European Union countries that permanently reside in Lithuania can vote in the Lithuanian elections to the European Parliament . 

Voting in municipal elections is open to all residents of Lithuania , regardless of their citizenship . 

Voting process is organized by the Central Electoral Commission and subordinate electoral bodies and is monitored by local and international observers . 

The voters vote in a secret ballot and the elections have generally been assessed as free and fair , although allegations of irregularities have been common . 


