A criminal turns state 's evidence by admitting guilt and testifying as a witness for the state against his associate(s ) or accomplice(s ) , often in exchange for leniency in sentencing or immunity from prosecution . 

The testimony of a witness who testifies against co - conspirator(s ) may be important evidence . 

In the United Kingdom and the Commonwealth realms , the term is to turn Queen 's or King 's evidence , depending on the sex of the reigning monarch . 

The term " turning approver " or " turn king 's approver " was also historically used ; an approver " not only admitted his own guilt to a crime but also incriminated his accomplices both past and present " in exchange for avoiding a death sentence ( and obtaining a lesser penalty , such as life imprisonment or abjuration of the realm ) or improving prison conditions . 

In American parlance , a defendant who agrees to cooperate with prosecutors and give information against co - conspirators ( often those with greater culpability ) is also said to flip . 

Witnesses who have turned state 's evidence have been important in organized crime cases in the United States , such as those against La Cosa Nostra . 

The first mafiosi who turned state 's evidence , such as Joseph Valachi and Jimmy Fratianno , did so in response to threats on their life from Mafia associates ; later cooperators were motivated to cooperate in order to avoid heavy sentences , such as those provided for under the RICO Act . 

Some who turned state 's evidence were permitted to participate in the Witness Security Program ( WITSEC ) . 

Among the highest - ranking Mafia members to ever turn state 's evidence was Salvatore Gravano ( " Sammy the Bull " ) , an underboss of the Gambino crime family who pleaded guilty to 19 murders and agreed to testify against family boss John Gotti . 

( Gravano was sentenced to 20 years ; Gotti was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1992 ) . 

The incentives to turn state 's evidence , or to not to do so , are explored in the famous prisoner 's dilemma , created by Merrill Flood and Melvin Dresher . 


