Overwatch is a team - based first - person shooter developed by Blizzard Entertainment and released for Microsoft Windows , PlayStation 4 , and Xbox One in June 2016 . 

The game , while having several different play modes , generally features two teams of six players each , selecting pre - made heroes from the game 's roster , to either attack or defend various objective points on the game 's maps . 

The game supports causal game modes as well as ranked competitive play . 

Since release , Overwatch has been both critically and financially successful , with a player base of 35 million players as of October 2017 . 

The development of Overwatch started in the fallout following Blizzard 's decision to cancel continued development of the massively multiplayer online role - playing game Titan around 2013 . 

After most of the rest of the team was transferred to other projects , the remaining team members , led by director Jeff Kaplan , came up with the concept of a team - based shooter that borrowed elements from other online shooters like Team Fortress 2 and multiplayer online battle arenas . 

Many of Overwatchs early assets were borrowed from Titan to obtain a proof - of - concept to greenlight further development . 

The consequences of Titans cancellation also led into creating a narrative of an optimistic near - future setting for the game , taking place some decades after the formation of the peacekeeping Overwatch team , created in response to a robotic uprising known as the Omnic War . 

Since release , the Overwatch developments continue to produce more content , released free for all , for the title , including new hero characters , maps , game modes , seasonal events , customization options for the characters , and external media such as digital comics and shorts to help support the narrative and character 's backstories . 

Blizzard has also made changes to make Overwatch more compatible for professional eSports , including support for its Overwatch League that started its first season in January 2018 . 


