Embedded Visual Basic or eVB , is an implementation of Microsoft Visual Basic which is geared towards generating programmes for embedded systems such as PDAs , cellular telephones , modern pocket computers and other programmable electronic systems and devices , generally for use under Windows CE . 

The tools themselves run on desktop operating systems such as Windows 98 , Windows NT , Windows XP and subsequent . 

The tools are also capable of compiling executables for Windows NT Embedded as well . 

Embedded Visual Basic is available from Microsoft , as are other such tools including Embedded Visual C++ ( eVC++ ) , which is discussed in the Wikipedia article about Microsoft Visual C++ , and Embedded Visual J++ ( eVJ++ ) , as well as other development tools and a relational database system for Windows CE ( a de facto Visual FoxPro replacement ) . 

A centrally important Windows CE - related tool is ActiveSync , which allows access of a device from a desktop computer as well as Control Panel functionality ( e.g. 

Install & Uninstall Programmes ) . 

Amongst other tools is a version of RegEdit for Windows CE . 

The implementations of these tools provide objects and components which can be used to write programmes which automate Microsoft Office 's Pocket versions , which would be the one way to get scripting and macro capability for the Pocket office suite . 

There is not an Embedded Visual InterDev version , nor have MSDN or Visual Source Safe been ported to Windows CE . 

The other means of obtaining Visual Basic functionality under Windows CE is to install the Windows Script Host implementation which is a non - default install available from the installation CD - Rom . 

Version 3 of the embedded Visual Basic , Visual J++ , and Visual C++ tools approximate the language and implementation of Visual Basic 6.0 , Visual J++ 6.0 , and Visual C++ 6.0 . 

The CD - Roms for installation of these tools have been provided for free from Microsoft . 

A further update of the latter , version 4.5 , is also available . 

Programming tools for .NET systems are also produced by Microsoft One Basic development tool which can be run on board the Windows CE machines themselves is the third - party NS BASIC 


