Pramoedya Ananta Toer ( EYD : Pramudya Ananta Tur ) ( 6 February 1925 – 30 April 2006 ) was an Indonesian author of novels , short stories , essays , polemics and histories of his homeland and its people . 

His works span the colonial period , Indonesia 's struggle for independence , its occupation by Japan during the Second World War , as well as the post - colonial authoritarian regimes of Sukarno and Suharto , and are infused with personal and national history . 

The Dutch Government imprisoned him from 1947 to 1949 , the Suharto regime from 1965 to 1979 . 

Pramoedya 's writings sometimes fell out of favor with the colonial and later the authoritarian native governments in power . 

Pramoedya faced censorship in Indonesia during the pre - reformation era despite the fact that he was well known outside Indonesia . 

The Dutch imprisoned him from 1947 to 1949 during the War of Independence ( 1945 - 1949 ) . 

During the changeover ( coup ) to the Suharto regime Pramoedya was caught up in the shifting tides of political change and power struggles in Indonesia . 

Suharto had him imprisoned from 1969 to 1979 on the Maluku island of Buru and branded him a Communist . 

He was seen as a holdover from the previous regime ( even though he had struggled with the former Sukarno regime ) . 

It was on the Island of Buru that he composed his most famous work , the Buru Quartet . 

Not permitted access to writing materials , he recited the story orally to other prisoners before it was written down and smuggled out . 

Pramoedya opposed some policies of founding President Sukarno as well as the New Order regime of Suharto , Sukarno 's successor . 

Political criticisms were often subtle in his writing , although he was outspoken against colonialism , racism and corruption of the Indonesian new Government . 

During the many years in which he suffered imprisonment and house arrest ( in Jakarta after his imprisonment on Buru ) , he became a cause célèbre for advocates of human rights and freedom of expression . 


