The grenade , hand , anti - tank No . 

74 , commonly known as the S.T. 

grenade or sticky bomb , was a British hand grenade designed and produced during the Second World War . 

The grenade was one of a number of anti - tank weapons developed for use by the British Army and Home Guard as an ad hoc solution to a lack of sufficient anti - tank guns in the aftermath of the Dunkirk evacuation . 

Designed by a team from MIR(c ) including Major Millis Jefferis and Stuart Macrae , the grenade consisted of a glass sphere containing an explosive made of nitroglycerin and additives ( this added stability to the mix , as well as giving it its squash - head - like effect ) covered in a strong adhesive and surrounded by a sheet - metal casing . 

When the user pulled a pin on the handle of the grenade , the casing would fall away and expose the sticky sphere . 

Pulling another pin would arm the firing mechanism and the user would then attempt to attach the grenade to an enemy tank or other vehicle . 

Letting go of the handle would release a lever that would activate a five - second fuse , which would then detonate the nitroglycerin . 

The grenade had several faults with its design . 

In tests , it failed to adhere to dusty or muddy tanks and , if the user was not careful after freeing the grenade from its casing , it could easily stick to his uniform . 

The Ordnance Board of the War Department did not approve the grenade for use by the British Army , but personal intervention by the prime minister , Winston Churchill , led to the grenade going into production . 

Between 1940 and 1943 , approximately 2.5 million were produced . 

It was primarily issued to the Home Guard , but was also used by British and Commonwealth forces in North Africa , accounting for six German tanks ; used by Allied Forces on the Anzio Beachhead , including the First Special Service Force ; as well as by Australian Army units during the New Guinea campaign . 

The French Resistance were also issued a quantity of the grenades . 


