The voyage of the James Caird was a small - boat journey from Elephant Island in the South Shetland Islands to South Georgia in the southern Atlantic Ocean , a distance of . 

Undertaken by Sir Ernest Shackleton and five companions , it aimed to obtain rescue for the main body of the Imperial Trans - Antarctic Expedition of 1914 – 1917 , which was stranded on Elephant Island after the loss of its ship Endurance . 

Polar historians regard the voyage as one of the greatest small - boat journeys ever completed . 

In October 1915 pack ice in the Weddell Sea had sunk Endurance , leaving Shackleton and his companions adrift on a precarious ice surface . 

Throughout the duration of their survival , the group drifted northward until April 1916 , when the floe on which they had encamped broke up . 

They then made their way in the ship 's lifeboats to Elephant Island , where Shackleton decided that the most effective means of obtaining rescue would be to sail one of the lifeboats to South Georgia . 

Of the three lifeboats , the James Caird was deemed the strongest and most likely to survive the journey . 

Shackleton had named it after Sir James Key Caird , a Dundee jute - manufacturer and philanthropist , whose sponsorship had helped finance the expedition . 

Before its voyage , the ship 's carpenter Harry McNish strengthened and adapted the boat to withstand the mighty seas of the Southern Ocean . 

Surviving a series of dangers , including a near capsizing , the boat reached the southern coast of South Georgia after a voyage lasting 16   days . 

Shackleton and two companions then crossed the island 's mountainous interior to reach a whaling station on the northern side . 

Here he organised the relief of the Elephant Island party , and the return of his men home without loss of life . 

After the First World War , in 1919 , the James Caird was moved from South Georgia to England . 

It has been on regular display at Shackleton 's old school , Dulwich College , since 1922 . 


