Late Latin ( Latin : Latinitas serior ) is the scholarly name for the written Latin of late antiquity . 

English dictionary definitions of Late Latin date this period from the 3rd to the 6th centuries AD , and continuing into the 7th century in the Iberian Peninsula . 

This somewhat ambiguously defined version of Latin was used between the eras of Classical Latin and Medieval Latin . 

There is no scholarly consensus about exactly when Classical Latin should end or Medieval Latin should begin . 

However , Late Latin is characterized ( with variations and disputes ) by an identifiable style . 

Being a written language , Late Latin is not the same as Vulgar Latin . 

The latter served as ancestor of the Romance languages . 

Although Late Latin reflects an upsurge of the use of Vulgar Latin vocabulary and constructs , it remains largely classical in its overall features , depending on the author who uses it . 

Some Late Latin writings are more literary and classical , but others are more inclined to the vernacular . 

Also , Late Latin is not identical to Christian patristic Latin , used in the theological writings of the early Christian fathers . 

While Christian writings used a subset of Late Latin , pagans also wrote extensively in Late Latin , especially in the early part of the period . 

Late Latin formed when mercenaries from non - Latin - speaking peoples on the borders of the empire were being subsumed and assimilated in large numbers , and the rise of Christianity was introducing a heightened divisiveness in Roman society , creating a greater need for a standard language for communicating between different socioeconomic registers and widely separated regions of the sprawling empire . 

A new and more universal speech evolved from the main elements : Classical Latin , Christian Latin , which featured ( ordinary speech ) in which the people were to be addressed , and all the various dialects of Vulgar Latin . 

The linguist Antoine Meillet wrote , " Without the exterior appearance of the language being much modified , Latin became in the course of the imperial epoch a new language " , and , " Serving as some sort of lingua franca to a large empire , Latin tended to become simpler , to keep above all what it had of the ordinary " . 


