" Mr. Hankey , the Christmas Poo " is the ninth episode of the first season of the American animated television series South Park . 

It originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on December 17 , 1997 . 

In the episode , the Jewish character Kyle feels excluded from the town 's celebrations during Christmas , and is comforted by Mr. Hankey , a talking and singing lump of feces wearing a red hat . 

Mr. Hankey does not come alive in the presence of other characters , so they think that Kyle is delusional . 

In another plot strand , the townspeople remove all religious aspects of Christmas from South Park to remain politically correct and inoffensive . 

The episode was written and directed by the series ' co - creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone . 

The Mr. Hankey character was based on an idea from Parker 's childhood ; when Parker and Stone conceived the South Park series , they wanted to make Mr. Hankey the lead character . 

Heavily influenced by the Peanuts Christmas special A Charlie Brown Christmas from 1965 , " Mr. Hankey , the Christmas Poo " was the first Christmas - themed South Park episode , the first musical episode , and the only episode in season one ( and therefore the first time in the series ) in which Kenny does not die . 

It was a satire of political correctness and religious sensitivity . 

The episode received generally positive reviews and has been described as one of the classic South Park episodes . 

It was viewed in about 4.5 million households during its original broadcast , the highest Nielsen rating to that date for South Park and the fourth - highest overall for a basic cable entertainment program of 1997 . 

In addition to Mr. Hankey himself , the episode introduced the popular South Park songs " A Lonely Jew on Christmas " and " Kyle 's Mom is a Big Fat Bitch " . 

John Kricfalusi , the creator of The Ren & Stimpy Show , accused Parker and Stone of stealing the idea for Mr. Hankey from him , which the duo vehemently denied . 


