Distributed Component Object Model ( DCOM ) is a proprietary Microsoft technology for communication between software components on networked computers . 

DCOM , which originally was called " Network OLE " , extends Microsoft 's COM , and provides the communication substrate under Microsoft 's COM+ application server infrastructure . 

The addition of the " D " to COM was due to extensive use of DCE / RPC ( Distributed Computing Environment / Remote Procedure Calls ) – more specifically Microsoft 's enhanced version , known as MSRPC . 

In terms of the extensions it added to COM , DCOM had to solve the problems of 

Marshalling – serializing and deserializing the arguments and return values of method calls " over the wire " . 

Distributed garbage collection – ensuring that references held by clients of interfaces are released when , for example , the client process crashed , or the network connection was lost . 

It had to combine Hundreds / Tens of Thousands of objects held in the client 's browser with a single transmission in order to minimize bandwidth utilization . 

One of the key factors in solving these problems is the use of DCE / RPC as the underlying RPC mechanism behind DCOM . 

DCE / RPC has strictly defined rules regarding marshalling and who is responsible for freeing memory . 

DCOM was a major competitor to CORBA . 

Proponents of both of these technologies saw them as one day becoming the model for code and service - reuse over the Internet . 

However , the difficulties involved in getting either of these technologies to work over Internet firewalls , and on unknown and insecure machines , meant that normal HTTP requests in combination with web browsers won out over both of them . 

Microsoft , at one point , attempted and failed to head this off by adding an extra http transport to DCE / RPC called ncacn_http ( Network Computing Architecture connection - oriented protocol ) . 

This was later resurrected to support a Microsoft Exchange 2003 connection over HTTP . 

DCOM is supported natively in Windows NT 4.0 , Windows 2000 , Windows XP , and Windows Server 2003 , as well as Windows 7 , Windows 8 , Windows 10 , Windows Server 2008 , Windows Server 2008 R2 , Windows Server 2012 , Windows Server 2012 R2 and Windows Server 2016 . 


