Grand Theft Auto : Vice City is an action - adventure video game developed by Rockstar North and published by Rockstar Games . 

It was released on 29 October 2002 for the PlayStation 2 , on 12 May 2003 for Microsoft Windows , and on 31 October 2003 for the Xbox . 

A remastered version was released for mobile platforms in 2012 , for the game 's tenth anniversary . 

It is the sixth title in the Grand Theft Auto series and the first main entry since 2001 's Grand Theft Auto III . 

Set within the fictional Vice City , based on Miami , the game follows Tommy Vercetti following his release from prison . 

After he is caught up in an ambushed drug deal , he seeks out those responsible while building a criminal empire and seizing power from other criminal organisations in the city . 

The game is played from a third - person perspective , and its world is navigated on foot or by vehicle . 

The open world design lets the player freely roam Vice City , consisting of two main islands . 

The game 's plot is based on multiple real - world people and events in Miami such as Cuban , Haitian , and Biker gangs , the 1980s crack epidemic , the Mafioso drug lords of Miami , and the dominance of glam metal . 

The game was also influenced by the film and television of the era , including Scarface and Miami Vice . 

Much of the development work constituted creating the game world to fit the inspiration and time period ; the development team conducted extensive field research in Miami while creating the world . 

Upon release , the game received critical acclaim , with praise particularly directed at its music , gameplay and open world design . 

However , the game also generated controversy , with criticism directed at the depiction of violence and racial groups . 

The game sparked lawsuits and protests while being labelled as violent and explicit . 

Vice City became the best - selling video game of 2002 and has sold over 17.5 million copies . 

Considered one of the most significant titles of the sixth generation of video games , and one of the greatest video games ever made , it won numerous year - end accolades including Game of the Year awards from several gaming publications . 

Since its release , the game has received numerous ports to many gaming platforms . 

Its successor , , was released in October 2004 , and a prequel , , was released in 2006 . 


