Live from Here , formerly known as A Prairie Home Companion with Chris Thile , is an American variety radio show known for its musical guests , especially folk and traditional musicians , tongue - in - cheek radio drama , and relaxed humor . 

Hosted by Chris Thile , it airs on Saturday evenings and is usually recorded in front of a live audience at the Fitzgerald Theater in St. Paul , Minnesota , although the show frequently goes on tour to New York City and other U.S. cities . 

The show is derived from the historic A Prairie Home Companion with Garrison Keillor ( APHC ) radio show . 

The original host , Garrison Keillor , performed his final show in July 2016 , and Thile 's program began on October 15 , 2016 . 

Thile , an American virtuoso mandolinist and singer - songwriter , had a two decade history with APHC and is known for his work in the folk and progressive bluegrass groups Nickel Creek and Punch Brothers . 

After two unprecedented guest host spots in 2015 , Keillor decided on his successor , featured Thile as host again in January – February 2016 , and fully ceded his hosting role to Thile in the October 2016 performance at the Fitzgerald Theater in St. Paul , Minnesota , continuing as the show 's Executive Producer . 

Thile 's new program presents expanded musical and comedic elements , retaining the template of the earlier program ( e.g. , its most recent acting and sound effect cast , and " sponsorships " from fictitious companies ) , but without such features as its earlier signature " Lives of the Cowboys " series and " News from Lake Wobegon " monologue . 

Reviews of the new program have been uniformly positive , focusing on the remaining familiar elements and on the new music and expanded musical focus brought by the new host . 

On November 29 , 2017 , in the wake of allegations of misconduct against Keillor , American Public Media announced it would change the show 's name . 

The new name of the show was announced as Live from Here live on the December 16 , 2017 , broadcast of the show . 


