Boating on the River Epte ( also known as The Canoe on the Epte ) is an 1890 oil painting by French impressionist artist Claude Monet . 

It is currently housed at the São Paulo Museum of Art . 

Between 1887 and 1890 Monet concerned himself with portraying scenes from the River Epte , which bathed this property at Giverny . 

The sisters Suzanne and Blanche Hoschedé posed for this series of pictures , their late father being banker Ernest Hoschedé , a patron of the arts and collector of Monet , and their mother , Alice , who became Monet ’s second wife . 

This series began with La Barque Rose ( private collection ) and also worthy of mention are canvases La Barque à Giverny ( Musée d'Orsay , Paris ) and En Barque ( National Museum of Western Art , Tokyo ) . 

The São Paulo Museum of Art picture , which also has a preparatory study , was mentioned by the artist himself on a letter to critic and friend Geffroy , dated June 22 , 1890 : “ I am again vexed by things that are impossible to do : water with undulating vegetation on the bottom ” . 

In fact one of the more singular characteristics of The Canoe on the Epte in the Monet context is the proximity of the water , which assumes at the lower part of the composition an almost tactile reality , as if the painter for once did not want to depict the luminous reflections of its surface , but its depth . 

Although it belongs to a series , the masp work is in this particular a unique case . 

Monet here announces materiality , and it is necessary to remember that this new visual dimension of water will only be obtained again over thirty years later in his paintings of the 1918 - 1924 period . 

His friendship with photographer Nadar and his genuine interest in photography explain the framing of the composition as well as the out - of - focus effect produced by the movement of the boat on the water to be seen in the Hoschedé sisters . 

In addition , a possible source of the São Paulo Museum of Art composition , as has been detected , is the Harunobu engraving , titled Woman Collecting Lotus Flowers . 


