By its constitution , Egypt has a multi - party system . 

However , in practice the National Democratic Party was the long - time ruling party and dominated the Egyptian political arena up until the Egyptian Revolution of 2011 , which ousted NDP president Hosni Mubarak . 

Under Mubarak , opposition parties were allowed , but were widely considered to have no real chance of gaining power . 

As of 8 June 2014 , Abdel Fattah el - Sisi is the president . 

On 28 March 2011 , the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces introduced the Political Party Law , which eases restrictions on the legal establishment of new political parties in Egypt . 

The legislation has still however been criticized as discriminatory . 

Under the law new parties are now required to have at least 5,000 members from at least ten of Egypt 's provinces . 

Originally , new parties were only required to have 1,000 members . 

This was cited as a barrier for new parties before parliamentary elections which took place at the end of 2011 and beginning of 2012 . 

Also , new party leaders are required to raise at least LE1 million to publish the names of the founding members in two widely circulated dailies , seen as favoring wealthier interests . 

Also , no parties are able to form on the basis of religion or class , ruling out the formation of Islamic and labor parties . 

However , in practice , religious parties have been allowed . 

After first being denied a license by the political parties commission , the Supreme Administrative Court allowed Gamaa Islamiya to form the Building and Development Party . 

The political parties commission allowed the Al Nour Party to be approved in May 2011 , in part because it does not refer to the hudud in their electoral program . 

An article on the Daily News Egypt website states that religious parties have gone around the ban by not explicitly advocating a state based on Islam in their political programs . 

The 2014 Egyptian constitution bans parties based on religious grounds , though a similar law that was previously in effect did not bar Islamists from running in the 2012 presidential election or the 2011 – 12 parliamentary elections . 


