The siege of Fushimi was a crucial battle in the series leading up to the decisive Battle of Sekigahara which ended Japan 's Sengoku period . 

Fushimi Castle was defended by a force loyal to Tokugawa Ieyasu 's Eastern army , led by Torii Mototada . 

Knowing of his inevitable defeat , Torii 's sacrifice diverted Ishida Mitsunari 's attention , and part of his Western army , away from his Nakasendō fortresses , which were attacked by Tokugawa during the siege of Fushimi . 

Ultimately , the castle fell , but served a crucial role in allowing for greater strategic victories by Tokugawa . 

Fushimi was originally built several years earlier , as a luxurious palace for Toyotomi Hideyoshi , but was destroyed by an earthquake in 1596 . 

Tokugawa Ieyasu rebuilt it and placed it under the care of Torii Mototada . 

As war with Ishida approached , Tokugawa saw that this would be a prime target for his enemies , as it stood quite close to Kyoto and guarded many of the approaches to , and past , the city . 

Visiting the castle , he discussed his fears with Torii , who assured his lord that he would be willing to sacrifice himself , and the castle , for the greater strategic gain of his lord . 

It is said he even suggested reducing the garrison , in order to free up warriors who could serve better purposes in other locations ; knowing the castle would fall anyway , he saw no need for the entire garrison to be sacrificed . 

Ishida 's army began their assault on 27 August , but made little progress for ten days . 

At one point , one of the towers was even lit on fire , but was soon put out by a member of the garrison , who lost his life in the process . 

Ultimately , a message was sent into the castle tied to an arrow , explaining that the besieging army had taken the wife and children of one of the defenders hostage , and would crucify them unless he betrayed his compatriots . 

Thus , on 8 September , one of the towers was set aflame from within the castle , and a number of Ishida 's men broke through . 

The central keep was then lit aflame , but Torii and his garrison continued to fight until all but ten had been killed . 

Torii and his family then committed suicide , his selfless sacrifice coming to be known later as a great example of samurai loyalty and honor . 

The castle would be regained by Tokugawa soon afterwards , following his victory at Sekigahara . 

The wooden floors from Fushimi Castle were moved to a Buddhist temple , Yōgen - in , also in Kyoto , where they were made into a ceiling . 

The bloodstained ceiling is still visible in the temple , and records from the period identify Torii 's body / stains as well as those of his retainers . 


