Historically , Zenkō - ji is perhaps most famous for its involvement in the battles between Uesugi Kenshin and Takeda Shingen in the 16th century , when it served as one of Kenshin 's bases of operations . 

Currently , Zenkō - ji is one of the few remaining pilgrimage sites in Japan . 

Zenkō - ji was founded before Buddhism in Japan split into several different sects . 

It currently belongs to both the Tendai and Jōdoshū schools of Buddhism , and is co - managed by twenty - five priests from the former school , and fourteen from the latter . 

The temple enshrines images of the Amida Buddha . 

According to legend , the image , having caused dispute between two clans , was dumped into a canal . 

It was later rescued by Honda Yoshimitsu . 

The temple was thus named " Zenkō , " according to the Chinese transliteration of Yoshimitsu 's name . 

The main Buddhist image is a hibutsu ( secret Buddha ) , a hidden Buddha statue , not shown to the public . 

This hibutsu is rumored to be the first Buddha statue to ever be brought to Japan . 

The commandments of the temple require the absolute secrecy of the statue , prohibiting it to be shown to anyone , including the chief priest of the temple . 

However , a replica of the statue ( Maedachi Honzon ) has been created which can be shown publicly once every six years in spring , in a ceremony called Gokaichō . 

This event attracts many worshipers and visitors . 

When the statue was on display in 2003 , Zenkō - ji cooperated with Motozenkō - ji and Zenkō - ji of Kofu , Yamanashi Prefecture . 

The most recent display of " Maedachi Honzon " took place in April and May , 2015 . 

The temple contains a statue of Binzuru , a physician who was said to be Buddha 's follower . 

Visitors to the temple touch the statue in order to cure their ailments . 

The temple also contains an inner prayer chamber , accessible to visitors . 

Currently , a daily morning ritual is held there by the high priest or priestess . 

From the inner chamber , a narrow staircase leads down to a completely dark corridor . 

In this corridor worshippers try to touch a metal key hanging on the wall , in order to gain enlightenment . 

The key represents the Key to the Western Paradise of the Amida Buddha . 


