The peter pepper , Capsicum annuum var . 

annuum , is an heirloom chili pepper that is best known for its unusual shape . 

It is a type of Capsicum annuum , though it is not officially recognized as a cultivar of the species . 

It occurs in red and yellow varieties . 

The pepper is considered very rare , and its origin is unknown . 

The pepper is most commonly grown in East Texas and Louisiana , although it is grown in Mexico , as well . 

It was first popularized in the United States by Frank X. Tolbert in his Dallas Morning News column about obscure local history , although he saw the pepper only once in his life . 

It has since been studied by horticulture experts at the University of Texas at Austin and Louisiana State University . 

Though it is rare , its seeds are available from some private suppliers . 

It is adaptable to a variety of growing conditions . 

The seeds have also been exported to Asian countries , including South Korea . 

The pepper has often been noted for its phallic appearance when fully grown . 

The pepper , particularly the red variety , has been described as a " miniature replica of the uncircumcised male organ " . 

The pod of the pepper is wrinkled and has a round tip with a cleft . 

It is approximately 3 to 4   inches in length , and 1 to 1.5   inches wide when fully mature . 

The pod of the pepper has also been noted for its pungency . 

As it has a very high Scoville rating , the pepper has been suggested for ornamental use rather than human consumption . 

It is sometimes pickled , though . 

It was described by Frank X. Tolbert , a Texas journalist , historian , and chili enthusiast in one of his columns called " Tolbert 's Texas " he wrote for the Dallas Morning News . 

Jean Andrews , in her book Peppers : the domesticated Capsicums , states the peter pepper did have all the qualifications " to be honored by the pen " of Mr. Tolbert , who wrote about " little - known facts about little - known things that occur in little - known places in Texas " . 

Ms. Andrews described how hard it was to get the seed of this " little - known things that occur in little - known places " that she needed to study , but eventually she got the seeds , and was amused to see how " resulting pods naturally and consistently contorted themselves into a miniature replica of the circumcised male organ . " 


