Chih - Kung Jen (; August 15 or October 2 , 1906 – November 19 , 1995 ) was a Chinese physicist who emigrated to the U.S. and participated in some of the 20th century 's major scientific , political and social developments in both the United States and China . 

Born in a mud house in a remote and largely illiterate village in China , he was awarded a scholarship funded as a result of the Boxer Rebellion of the late 19th century to attend Beijing 's prestigious Tsinghua University . 

As part of that scholarship , he came to the U.S. in 1926 to study electrical engineering and physics at MIT . 

He completed his graduate studies first at the University of Pennsylvania , and then in physics at Harvard University . 

Jen was among the first to provide experimental proof of the existence of the ionosphere . 

In addition , he obtained the first theoretically calculated value for the electron affinity spectrum of the hydrogen atom , a problem of fundamental significance in quantum mechanics and astrophysics . 

In 1937 , Jen returned to China , and subsequently joined in the " Academic Long March " to set up a wartime refugee university ( the National Southwestern Associated University ) in Kunming . 

His wartime teaching and research contributed to the training of what would become the nucleus of the present - day Chinese scientific intelligentsia . 

After the war , Jen returned to the Physics Department at Harvard , and eventually settled at the Applied Physics Laboratory at Johns Hopkins University to carry on pioneering research in trapping free radicals and other topics in microwave spectroscopy . 

In 1972 , following Richard Nixon 's visit to China , Jen led a ground - breaking delegation of Chinese American scientists to that country . 

The delegation conferred with Premier Zhou Enlai , and initiated what was to become a steady stream of scientific exchanges between the U.S. and China . 

Jen subsequently made numerous visits to China . 

He continued to work on strengthening U.S .- China scientific relations , and in addition was a leader in improving scientific education in Chinese universities . 


