The U.S. Small Business Administration ( SBA ) is a United States government agency that provides support to entrepreneurs and small businesses . 

The mission of the Small Business Administration is " to maintain and strengthen the nation 's economy by enabling the establishment and viability of small businesses and by assisting in the economic recovery of communities after disasters " . 

The agency 's activities are summarized as the " 3 Cs " of capital , contracts and counseling . 

SBA loans are made through banks , credit unions and other lenders who partner with the SBA . 

The SBA provides a government - backed guarantee on part of the loan . 

Under the Recovery Act and the Small Business Jobs Act , SBA loans were enhanced to provide up to a 90 percent guarantee in order to strengthen access to capital for small businesses after credit froze in 2008 . 

The agency had record lending volumes in late 2010 . 

SBA helps lead the federal government 's efforts to deliver 23 percent of prime federal contracts to small businesses . 

Small business contracting programs include efforts to ensure that certain federal contracts reach woman - owned and service - disabled veteran - owned small businesses as well as businesses participating in programs such as 8(a ) and HUBZone . 

SBA has at least one office in each U.S. state . 

In addition , the agency provides grants to support counseling partners , including approximately 900 Small Business Development Centers ( often located at colleges and universities ) , 110 Women 's Business Centers , and SCORE , a volunteer mentor corps of retired and experienced business leaders with approximately 350 chapters . 

These counseling services provide services to over 1 million entrepreneurs and small business owners annually . 

President Obama announced in January 2012 that he would elevate the SBA into the Cabinet , a position it last held during the Clinton administration , thus making the Administrator of the Small Business Administration a cabinet - level position . 


