Tokyo Mirage Sessions ♯FE is a crossover role - playing video game developed by Atlus and published by Nintendo for the Wii U home console . 

The game combines gameplay , narrative and aesthetic elements from Atlus ' Shin Megami Tensei and Nintendo 's Fire Emblem series . 

It was released in Japan in December 2015 , and worldwide in June 2016 . 

Taking place in modern - day Tokyo and featuring real - life locations such as Shibuya and Harajuku , the game centers around evil beings known as Mirages who seek to harvest an energy known as Performa from humans and are responsible for several disappearances . 

The story follows a group of teenagers who become allied with friendly Mirages , based on characters from the Fire Emblem series , and merge with them to become Mirage Masters . 

Under the guise of the Fortuna Entertainment talent agency , the Mirage Masters fight to protect innocent people from the Mirages and find out who is behind the attacks . 

The game was first proposed by Nintendo producer Kaori Ando , who envisioned a crossover between the Fire Emblem and Shin Megami Tensei series . 

Although initially reluctant due to their workload , Atlus agreed to the collaboration , and much of the early work went into deciding what genre of game it was going to be and how best to incorporate both series while creating an original game . 

The production period lasted five years . 

A notable feature was musical numbers produced by Japanese entertainment company Avex Group . 

The game was announced two months after full development began . 

Due to its Japanese setting and aesthetic , its Western release retains the Japanese voice track with subtitles rather than an English dub . 

Reception of the game was generally positive ; many praised the battle system , reactions to the story were mixed to positive , and other elements such as dungeon designs and a lack of Fire Emblem - related elements were criticized along with technical problems . 

The game was later chosen by critics as one of the best games for the console . 


