Islam is the largest religion in Sudan , and Muslims have dominated national government institutions since independence in 1956 . 

According to UNDP Sudan , the Muslim population is 97 % , including numerous Arab and non - Arab groups . 

The remaining 3 % ascribe to either Christianity or traditional animist religions . 

Muslims predominate in all but Nuba Mountains region . 

The vast majority of Muslims in Sudan adhere to Sunni Islam of Maliki school of jurisprudence , deeply influenced with Sufism , making Sudan one of the most tolerant Muslim majority countries in the world . 

There are also some Shia communities in Khartoum , the capital . 

The most significant divisions occur along the lines of the Sufi brotherhoods . 

Two popular brotherhoods , the Ansar and the Khatmia , are associated with the opposition Umma and Democratic Unionist Parties respectively . 

Only the Darfur region is traditionally lacking the presence of Sufi brotherhoods found in the rest of the country . 

Shari'a law has been installed by various military regimes , and its application to non - Muslims in the capital was a contentious issue during the negotiations , but it and the other major issues underlying the north / south conflict have been largely resolved in the agreements [ citation needed ] . 

Shari'a is to continue to be the basis of the national legal system as it applies in the north ; national legislation applicable to the south is to be based on " popular consensus , the values , and the customs of the people . " 

In states or regions where a majority hold different religious or customary beliefs than those on which the legal system is based , the national laws may be amended to accord better with such beliefs . 

Throughout the country , the application of Shari'a to non - Muslims is to be limited , and courts may not exercise their discretion to impose the harsher physical forms of Shari'a penalties on non - Muslims . 

Sudan has had three democratic governments since 1956 , all of which abolished Shari'a law . 


