The Next - Generation Secure Computing Base ( NGSCB ; codenamed Palladium and also known as Trusted Windows ) was a cancelled software architecture designed by Microsoft which aimed to provide users of the Windows operating system with better privacy , security , and system integrity . 

NGSCB was the result of years of research and development within Microsoft to create a secure computing solution that equaled the security of closed platforms such as set - top boxes while simultaneously preserving the backward compatibility , flexibility , and openness of the Windows operating system . 

The primary stated objective with NGSCB was to " protect software from software . " 

Part of the Trustworthy Computing initiative when unveiled in 2002 , NGSCB was expected to be integrated with the Windows Vista operating system , then known by its codename " Longhorn . " 

NGSCB relied on hardware designed by members of the Trusted Computing Group to produce a parallel operation environment hosted by a new kernel called the " Nexus " that existed alongside Windows and provide new applications with features such as hardware - based process isolation , data encryption based on integrity measurements , authentication of a local or remote machine or software configuration , and encrypted paths for user authentication and graphics output . 

NGSCB would also facilitate the creation and distribution of digital rights management ( DRM ) policies pertaining the use of information . 

The technology was the subject of much controversy during its development , with critics contending that it could be used to impose restrictions on users , enforce vendor lock - in , and undermine fair use rights and open - source software . 

NGSCB was first demonstrated by Microsoft in 2003 at the Windows Hardware Engineering Conference before undergoing a revision in 2004 that would enable applications written prior to its development to benefit from its functionality . 

In 2005 , reports stated that Microsoft would scale back its plans so that the company could ship its Windows Vista operating system by its target date of 2006 . 

Development of NGSCB spanned almost a decade before its cancellation , one of the lengthiest development periods of a feature intended for the operating system . 

NGSCB differed from the technologies that Microsoft billed as pillars of Windows Vista during development of the operating system , including Windows Presentation Foundation , Windows Communication Foundation , and WinFS , in that it was not built upon and did not prioritize .NET Framework managed code . 

While the technology has not fully materialized , aspects of NGSCB have emerged in Microsoft 's BitLocker full disk encryption feature , which can optionally use the Trusted Platform Module to validate the integrity of boot and system files prior to operating system startup ; the Measured Boot feature in Windows 8 ; the certificate attestation features in Windows 8.1 ; and the Device Guard feature of Windows 10 . 


