The Secret of the Nagas is the second novel of the Shiva trilogy series by the Indian author Amish Tripathi . 

The story takes place in the imaginary land of Meluha and narrates how the inhabitants of that land are saved from their wars by a nomad named Shiva . 

It begins from where its predecessor , The Immortals of Meluha , left off , with Shiva trying to save Sati from the invading Naga . 

Later Shiva takes his troop of soldiers and travels far east to the land of Branga , where he wishes to find a clue to reach the Naga people . 

Shiva also learns that Sati 's first child is still alive , as well as her twin sister . 

His journey ultimately leads him to the Naga capital of Panchavati , where he finds a surprise waiting for him . 

Tripathi started writing The Secret of the Nagas while the first part of the trilogy was being released . 

He relied on his knowledge of geography and history to expand the locations visited in the story . 

The book was released on 12 August 2011 , and was published by Westland Press . 

Before its release , the author confessed that many revelations would be present in the book , including the true nature of many characters . 

Two theatrical trailers were created for showing in multiplex cinema halls , as Tripathi believed that the film - going audience also reads his books , and that would create publicity . 

The Secret of the Nagas was in high demand before its release , with 80,000   copies pre - ordered . 

The book quickly reached the top of best - seller listings , selling 95,000   copies the first month , before going for a re - print . 

As of June 2015 , over 2.5 million copies of the Shiva Trilogy have been sold at gross retail sales of over . 

Although the book was commercially successful , The Secret of the Nagas received mixed reviews from critics . 

While it received praise for its " impressive conception " and story development , it also received criticism for Tripathi 's usage of non - literary language . 


