Taiwan is primarily a destination for men , women , and children trafficked for the purposes of forced labor and sexual exploitation . 

It is also a source of women trafficked to Japan , Australia , the United Kingdom , and the United States . 

Women and girls from the People ’s Republic of China ( P.R.C. ) 

and Southeast Asian countries are trafficked to Taiwan through fraudulent marriages , deceptive employment offers , and illegal smuggling for sexual exploitation and forced labor . 

Many trafficking victims are workers from rural areas of Vietnam , Thailand , Indonesia , and the Philippines , employed through recruitment agencies and brokers to perform low skilled work in Taiwan ’s construction , fishing , and manufacturing industries , or to work as domestic servants . 

Such workers are often charged high job placement and service fees , up to $ 14,000 , resulting in substantial debt that labor brokers or employers use as a tool for involuntary servitude . 

Many foreign workers remain vulnerable to trafficking because legal protections , oversight by authorities and enforcement efforts are inadequate . 

Taiwan authorities reported that traffickers continued to use fraudulent marriages to facilitate labor and sex trafficking , despite increased efforts by the authorities to prevent this practice . 

Some women who are smuggled onto Taiwan to seek illegal work were sometimes sold in auctions to sex traffickers , and subsequently forced to work in the commercial sex industry . 

NGOs reported a sharp increase during the reporting period in the number of boys rescued from prostitution , mainly discovered during police investigations of online social networking sites suspected of being front operations for prostitution rings . 

Taiwan authorities made clear progress during the rating period by improving efforts to investigate and prosecute trafficking cases , approving amendments to Taiwan ’s Immigration Act that will significantly enhance legal protections for trafficking victims , and approving a budget plan of $ 12.6 million for victim protection measures . 

U.S. State Department 's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in " Tier 1 " in 2017 . 


