Tlacochcalcatl ( " The man from the house of darts " ) was an Aztec military title or rank ; roughly equivalent to the modern title of General . 

In Aztec warfare the tlacochcalcatl was second in command only to the tlatoani and he usually lead the Aztec army into battle when the ruler was otherwise occupied . 

Together with the tlacateccatl ( general ) , he was in charge of the Aztec army and undertook all military decisions and planning once the tlatoani had decided to undertake a campaign . 

The tlacochcalcatl was also in charge of the tlacochcalco . 

Tlacochcalco ( " in the house of darts " ) was the name of four armories placed at the four entries to the ceremonial precinct of the Aztec capital Tenochtitlan . 

These mains armories were stocked with new weapons every year ( during the festival of Quecholli ) , and one account by the Spanish conquistador Andrés de Tapia estimates the number of weapons found in each of the four armories to be 500 cartloads " ) 

The tlacochcalcatl was always a member of the military order of the cuachicqueh " the shorn ones " . 

The office of tlacochcalcatl was often the last step towards becoming the next tlatoani . 

The first tlacochcalcatl was instated under the rule of Huitzilihuitl who appointed his brother Itzcoatl who probably also served during the rule of Chimalpopoca . 

When Itzcoatl became tlatoani he appointed Tlacaelel as tlacochcalcatl and Moctezuma Ilhuicamina as tlacateccatl ; when Tlacaelel was appointed cihuacoatl , Moctezuma Ilhuicamina was promoted to tlacochcalcatl . 

It is not known who was tlacochcalcatl under the rule of Moctezuma I ; possibly Tlacaelel held a dual office in this period . 

Under the rule of Moctezuma Ilhuicamina 's son and successor Axayacatl , the tlacochcalcatl was Tizoc , who in turn became ruler at Axayacatl 's death . 

Tizoc who was seen as a weak ruler ; he was disposed of and his tlacochcalcatl Ahuitzotl became ruler . 

Ahuitzotl 's tlacochcalcatl was the next ruler : Moctezuma II ( Xocoyotzin ) . 

The tlacochcalcatl of Moctezuma II at the arrival of the Spaniards was Quappiatl . 


