Solidago spithamaea is a species of flowering plant in the aster family known by the common name Blue Ridge goldenrod . 

It is native to a very small region around the border between North Carolina and Tennessee in the United States . 

Its three remaining populations are threatened by the loss and degradation of its habitat . 

It is a federally listed threatened species of the United States . 

Solidago spithamaea produces one or more stems from an underground rhizome and caudex , and it grows 10 to 40 centimeters ( 4 - 14 inches ) tall . 

The plant has an unpleasant scent . 

The leaves vary in shape and size , the ones higher on the stem becoming smaller . 

The inflorescence is a compact or spreading array of 15 to 50 or more flower heads . 

Each head has a bell - shaped base about half a centimeter ( 0.2 inches ) long which is lined with phyllaries with pointed , darkened tips . 

The head contains 8 - 15 yellow ray florets just a few millimeters long , surrounding 20 - 60 disc florets . 

The fruit is an achene with a pappus of bristles . 

Solidago spithamaea grows on the high summits of the Blue Ridge Mountains in western North Carolina and eastern Tennessee . 

There is one population each in Avery and Mitchell Counties in North Carolina and Carter County , Tennessee , a region measuring about 15 square miles ( 38   km ) . 

It can be found on Grandfather Mountain , Hanging Rock , and Roan Mountain . 

It grows on rocky peaks , cliffs , and slopes covered in talus . 

The habitat is mostly barren and exposed to full sun and harsh winter weather . 

This is one of several goldenrods that are relict species , plants that were more common when conditions were colder and wetter . 

As glaciers receded , the area became warmer and drier , and plants such as this goldenrod were left in areas that most resemble the alpine climate to which it was adapted . 

It now persists in the high mountain peaks that have the harshest winter conditions . 

Few of the relict goldenrods remain as far south as this one . 

Other plants in this barren habitat include mainly grasses and sedges , but there are some other rare mountain herbs and trees including Heller 's blazingstar ( Liatris helleri ) , red spruce ( Picea rubens ) , cliff avens ( Geum radiatum ) , sandmyrtle ( Kalmia buxifolia ) . 

The very habitat where the plant persists is an area popular for hiking and sightseeing , and much of it has been converted to roads , trails , parking lots , and other utilities . 

Remaining habitat is vulnerable to trampling . 

Other threats include acid precipitation and climate change . 


