Eugene Wesley " Gene " Roddenberry ( August 19 , 1921 – October 24 , 1991 ) was an American screenwriter and producer of several television series , best known for his work in creating the Star Trek franchise . 

He began a writing career while he was a Sergeant in the Los Angeles Police Department ( LAPD ) and his first work to be bought by a network was The Secret Defense of 117 , although it took four years to be broadcast . 

During that time , he wrote four episodes of the police procedural Highway Patrol under the pseudonym " Robert Wesley " , as the LAPD required employees to seek formal permission to work a second job . 

After leaving the force , he wrote for several series , such as Have Gun – Will Travel but wanted to become a producer . 

He wrote pilots for a series of his own , but these were turned down by the studios until he began work on The Lieutenant . 

This ran for a single season on NBC on Saturday nights . 

While involved in that series , he began working on a science fiction premise that became . 

He oversaw the production of the series for the first two seasons , but following budget cuts and the move to an unfavorable timeslot for the , he stepped back from working on Star Trek but remained credited as an executive producer . 

Following the cancellation of the series , he wrote and produced his first feature film , Pretty Maids All in a Row . 

He also produced several new science fiction pilots ; Genesis II ( also re - worked into a second pilot , called Planet Earth ) , The Questor Tapes and Spectre . 

Of these , Questor was approved to go to a full season , but following disagreements between Roddenberry and the studio over suggested changes , it was canceled . 

Star Trek was resurrected twice , first as , and then as . 

The studio brought in a new producer for the sequel to the film , to which Roddenberry demanded creative control or else he would refuse an executive producer credit , instead only willing to be credited as creative consultant . 

This credit started with and continued through to . 

He took Star Trek back to television during the late 1980s , with . 

In order to maintain complete control , he decided to release the series directly into broadcast syndication in order to avoid the interference of networks . 

Following his death in 1991 , two of his 1970s science fiction ideas were re - worked , resulting in and Andromeda . 


