Instrument is a documentary film directed by Jem Cohen about the band Fugazi . 

Cohen 's relationship with band member Ian MacKaye extends back to the 1970s when the two met in high school in Washington , D.C .. 

The film takes its title from the Fugazi song of the same name , from their 1993 album , In on the Kill Taker . 

Editing of the film was done by both Cohen and the members of the band over the course of five years . 

It was shot from 1987 through 1998 on super 8 , 16 mm and video and is composed mainly of footage of concerts , interviews with the band members , practices , tours and time spent in the studio recording their 1995 album , Red Medicine . 

The film also includes portraits of fans as well as interviews with them at various Fugazi shows around the United States throughout the years . 

The Instrument Soundtrack by Fugazi was released in conjunction with the film . 

It consisted primarily of instrumental and unreleased songs ( including many demo cuts from End Hits , their next album after the soundtrack ) . 

When asked what the goal was in making Instrument , Cohen responded : 

One such misconception is shared in a scene where drummer Brendan Canty tells his bandmates how his sister 's boyfriend believes that Fugazi lives in a house together without heat and subsisting on a steady diet of nothing but rice . 

Cohen has also said that " [ o]ne of the reasons why I work with Fugazi and they work with me is that we enjoy traveling through this madness . 

It 's what they write songs about and it 's what I try to document in my films . " 

Notable scenes in the film include Fugazi performing for inmates at Lorton Correctional Facility ; singer / guitarist Guy Picciotto 's hilarious and astounding performance in a Philadelphia college gym in 1988 , where he stuffs himself through a basketball hoop and performs hanging upside down by his legs ( filmed by Todd Crespi ) ; and an interview of Guy Picciotto and Ian MacKaye by an 8th grade girl for a Public - access television cable TV show . 


