Created by Gene Roddenberry , the science fiction television series ( which eventually acquired the retronym Star Trek : The Original Series ) starred William Shatner as Captain James T. Kirk , Leonard Nimoy as Mr. Spock , and DeForest Kelley as Dr. Leonard " Bones " McCoy aboard the fictional Federation starship USS Enterprise . 

The series originally aired from September 1966 through June 1969 on NBC . 

This is the first television series in the Star Trek franchise , and comprises 79 regular episodes over the series ' three seasons , along with the series ' original pilot episode , " " . 

The episodes are listed in order by original air date , which match the episode order in each season 's original , remastered , and Blu - ray DVD box sets . 

The original , single - disc DVD releases placed the episodes by production order , with " The Cage " on the final disc . 

This list also includes the stardate on which the events of each episode took place within the fictional Star Trek universe . 

After the series ' cancellation , Paramount Television released Star Trek to television stations as a syndication package , where the series ' popularity grew to become a " major phenomenon within popular culture " . 

This popularity would eventually lead to the expansion of the Star Trek catalog , which as of 2017 includes six more television series and thirteen Trek motion pictures . 

In 2006 , CBS Paramount Domestic Television ( now CBS Television Distribution ) announced that each Original Series episode would be re - syndicated in high definition after undergoing , including both new and enhanced visual effects . 

( To date , the remastered episodes have only been broadcast in standard definition , though all three seasons are now available on the high - definition Blu - ray Disc format . ) 

The remastered episodes began with " Balance of Terror " ( along with , in some markets , " ") during the weekend of September 16 , 2006 , and ended with " The Cage " , which aired during the weekend of May 2 , 2009 . 

The remastered air dates listed below are based on the weekend each episode aired in syndication . 


