A volume boot record ( VBR ) ( also known as a volume boot sector , a partition boot record or a partition boot sector ) is a type of boot sector introduced by the IBM Personal Computer . 

It may be found on a partitioned data storage device , such as a hard disk , or an unpartitioned device , such as a floppy disk , and contains machine code for bootstrapping programs ( usually , but not necessarily , operating systems ) stored in other parts of the device . 

On non - partitioned storage devices , it is the first sector of the device . 

On partitioned devices , it is the first sector of an individual partition on the device , with the first sector of the entire device being a Master Boot Record ( MBR ) containing the partition table . 

The code in volume boot records is invoked either directly by the machine 's firmware or indirectly by code in the master boot record or a boot manager . 

Code in the MBR and VBR is in essence loaded the same way . 

Invoking a VBR via a boot manager is known as chain loading . 

Some dual - boot systems , such as NTLDR ( the boot loader for all releases of Microsoft 's Windows NT - derived operating systems up to and including Windows XP and Windows Server 2003 ) , take copies of the bootstrap code that individual operating systems install into a single partition 's VBR and store them in disc files , loading the relevant VBR content from file after the boot loader has asked the user which operating system to bootstrap . 

In Windows Vista , Windows Server 2008 and newer versions , NTLDR was replaced ; the boot - loader functionality is instead provided by two new components : WINLOAD.EXE and the Windows Boot Manager . 

In file systems such as FAT12 ( except for in DOS 1.x ) , FAT16 , FAT32 , HPFS and NTFS , the VBR also contains a BIOS Parameter Block ( BPB ) that specifies the location and layout of the principal on - disk data structures for the file system . 

( A detailed discussion of the sector layout of FAT VBRs , the various FAT BPB versions and their entries can be found in the FAT article . ) 


