The Suda ( ) is a river in Babayevsky , Kaduysky , and Cherepovetsky Districts of Vologda Oblast in Russia . 

It flows into the Rybinsk Reservoir of the Volga River . 

It is long , with a drainage basin of and an average discharge of . 

Its main tributaries are the Shogda , the Andoga , the Kolp , the Voron and the Petukh rivers . 

The source of the Suda is the confluence of the Koloshma and the Nozhema Rivers in the northwest of Babayevsky District of Vologda Oblast , close to the border with Leningrad Oblast . 

The river flows in the general direction southeast . 

Almost the whole valley of the Suda is populated . 

The selo of Borisovo - Sudskoye , located in the upper course of the river , is named after the Suda . 

Between 1927 and 1959 it was an administrative center of Borisovo - Sudsky District of Leningrad Oblast and of Vologda Oblast . 

The historic Khvalevskoye Manor is located in the selo of Borisovo - Sudskoye on a 30-meter high banks of the Suda river . 

In the lower course , between the mouths of the Kolp ( left ) and the Andoga ( right ) the Suda runs close to the urban - type settlement of Kaduy , the center of Kaduysky District , located on the left bank . 

The mouth of the Suda is located in the settlement of Suda , and the lower course is essentially a bay of the Rybinsk Reservoir . 

The river basin of the Suda comprises vast area in the west of Vologda Oblast , in particular , almost all of Babayevsky District , almost all of Kaduysky District , large areas in Belozersky and Cherepovetsky District of Vologda Oblast and in Boksitogorsky District of Leningrad Oblast , as well as minor areas in Vytegorsky and Ustyuzhensky Districts of Vologda Oblast and Tikhvinsky and Podporozhsky Districts of Leningrad Oblast . 

There are many lakes in the river basin of the Suda , mostly of glacial origin . 

The biggest of the lakes is Lake Andozero in Belozersky District . 

The lower course of the Suda ( ) is listed in the State Water Register of Russia as navigable , however , there is no passenger navigation . 


