In the Hindu epic Mahabharata , Uttarā or Anglicized as Uttaraa ( उत्तरा ) was daughter of King Virata , at whose court the Pandavas spent a year in concealment during their exile . 

She was sister of Prince Uttar . 

It is also believed that Uttaraa had learnt dance from Arjuna during the Pandavas ' year of exile - in the Matsya Kingdom . 

Living incognito , as was the term of the banishment , Arjuna lived a life of a eunuch and practiced his art of dance learnt from the apsaras in heaven . 

Once King Virata realized who Uttaraa 's dance teacher was , he immediately proposed to offer his daughter to Arjuna . 

However , Arjuna explained to King Virata the doting relationship that a teacher has with his / her student is like that of a parent and child . 

He then proposed to make Uttaraa his daughter by marrying her to his son , Abhimanyu . 

Uttaraa was widowed at a very young age when Abhimanyu was killed in the Kurukshetra war . 

When Abhimanyu died , Uttaraa tried to burn herself on the pyre of Abhimanyu , but Krishna stopped her from doing so , informing her of her pregnancy . 

Towards the end of the Mahabharata war , with Uttaraa in labor , Ashwathama , son of Dronacharya , while trying to avenge the defeat of Duryodhana and the Kaurava army , engaged in a war with Arjuna . 

Knowing he could not best Arjuna conventionally , Ashathama invoked the potent Brahmastra , despite the promise he had made to the father / teacher that he would never use such a weapon . 

When Arjuna fired a Brahmastra to match , Vyasa intervened , commanding both warriors to withdraw their weapons . 

While Arjuna successfully did so , Ashwatthama did not possess the required knowledge . 

Krishna suggested that Ashwatthama redirect the weapon to an uninhabited place . 

Regretful , tired , but still vengeful , Ashwathama decided that if he could not end the Pandavas , he would end their lineage . 

He fired the weapon at Uttaraa 's womb , attacking the fœtus form of Parikshit . 

Krishna intervened and revived the stillborn baby , giving Parikshit his name . 

As a punishment , Ashwathama was made to lose his source of power , the jewel that adorned his shining forehead . 

This loss of the jewel that adorned his forehead made Ashwathama lose his state of mental alertness and he was forced to retire to obscurity as a derelict in the forests . 

Parikshit became heir to the Kuru dynasty and eventually became king of Hastinapur . 

In due time , Parikshit gave Uttaraa a grandson , Janamejaya . 


