The Theory of National Struggle ( simplified Chinese : 民族斗争理论 ; traditional Chinese : 民族鬥爭理論 ; pinyin : Mínzú Dòuzhēng Lilùn ) , or Ethnic Struggle , is one of Mao Zedong 's political theories on the application of Marxism in China . 

This theory is also Mao Zedong 's remedy to the " National Question " in Marxist theory . 

As a subset of the general philosophy of Mao Zedong Thought , the theory of national struggle addresses the question of how classical Marxist - Leninist ideas of political economy should intersect with China 's particular need for constructing a multi - ethnic national sovereignty without abandoning the universality of Marxism - Leninism . 

The gist of Mao 's theory is that Chinese communists should treat the question of national and ethnic liberation in China as a subset of the larger socialist project of class conflict . 

In strategic terms , this means that the key to constructing a multiethnic Chinese nation - state is to mobilize and transform " backward " ethnic minorities into modern subjects of proletariat class consciousness under the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party ( CCP ) . 

Mao 's political theory of " Nation Struggle " works in tandem with his theory of history , " New Democracy " . 

In formulating the history of Modern China as a series of social , political , economic , and cultural transformations marked by a national process of class awakening reacting against encroachments by Western and Japanese colonial aggressions , Mao argued that a " national struggle " to restore Chinese sovereignty was the first vital step in constructing a multi - ethnic regime of proletariat dictatorship . 

In doing so , Mao prioritized the creation of a united front against foreign aggressions as the larger struggle of the Chinese Revolution , one that involves the simultaneous cultivation of a united national identity amongst different ethnic minority groups and the transformation of " feudal - minded " ethnic minority populations into modern proletariat subjects . 

The amalgamation of Mao 's two separate theories of revolution signified his theoretical departure from the general doctrine of Marxism - Leninism in Soviet Union and in Europe , which strictly held the economic - determinist ideal that base determines superstructure . 

Mao 's theories not only addressed the primacy of nationalism in revolutionary mobilization , but also cast doubts on the classical Marxist notion of historical inevitability because Mao argued that a nationwide class consciousness could not be awaken in China unless cultivated by party leadership . 

Moreover , by conflating the notions of " ethnicity " and " nationality , " Mao justified the CCP 's geopolitical claim over the former territories and ethnic minority subjects of the multi - ethnic Qing Empire . 

Since Mao came to power in the communist establishment during the Yan'an period , Mao 's theory of " national struggle " became the guiding principle of ethnic and national liberation strategy of the Chinese Communist Party until his death in 1976 . 


