The Missile Defense Agency ( MDA ) has its origins in the Strategic Defense Initiative ( SDI ) which was established in 1983 by Ronald Reagan which was headed by Lt . General James Alan Abrahamson . 

Under the Strategic Defense Initiative 's Innovative Sciences and Technology Office headed by physicist and engineer Dr. James Ionson , the investment was predominantly made in basic research at national laboratories , universities , and in industry . 

These programs have continued to be key sources of funding for top research scientists in the fields of high - energy physics , supercomputing / computation , advanced materials , and many other critical science and engineering disciplines — funding which indirectly supports other research work by top scientists , and which was most politically viable to fund within the Military budget of the United States environment . 

It was renamed the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization in 1993 , and then renamed the Missile Defense Agency in 2002 . 

The current commander is U.S. Air Force Lt . Gen. Samuel A. Greaves . 

Rapid changes in the strategic environment due to the rapid Dissolution of the Soviet Union led , in 1993 , to Bill Clinton focusing on theater ballistic missiles and similar threats , and renaming it the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization , BMDO . 

With another change to a more global focus made by George W. Bush , in 2003 the organization became the Missile Defense Agency . 

The Missile Defense Agency is partially or wholly responsible for the development of several ballistic missile defense ( BMD ) systems , including the Patriot PAC-3 , Aegis BMD , THAAD and the Ground - Based Midcourse Defense system . 

They also led the development of numerous other projects , including the Multiple Kill Vehicle and the newer Multi - Object Kill Vehicle , the Kinetic Energy Interceptor and the Airborne Laser . 

As the inheritor of the SDI and BMDO work , the MDA continues to fund fundamental research in high - energy physics , supercomputing / computation , advanced materials , and many other science and engineering disciplines . 


