Xanthorhiza simplicissima ( yellowroot ) is the only member of the genus Xanthorhiza , and one of very few genera in the family Ranunculaceae with a woody stem ( the other notable example being Clematis ) . 

It is native to the eastern United States from Maine south to northern Florida and west to Ohio and eastern Texas . 

It contains the alkaloid berberine , which has a number of traditional and contemporary uses for dyeing and medicine . 

The genus name as well as the common name refer to the plant 's yellow roots ( xantho- meaning " yellow " and rhiza meaning " root " ) , which was used to produce a yellow dye by Native Americans . 

The species name refers to the simple ( not branched ) root . 

In the wild , it grows on the edges of streams in sandy soil under a canopy of dappled sunlight . 

In cultivation , it is often provided with more sunlight so that the fall colors are more vivid . 

It is a subshrub , reaching ( rarely ) in height , with stems up to diameter . 

The leaves are spirally arranged , long , each divided into 5 toothed leaflets , and flowers emerge only from the upper portion of the unbranched stem . 

The flowers are produced in broad panicles long , each flower small , star - shaped , reddish brown to purple brown , with five petals . 

Yellowroot propagates asexually by sending out many underground runners , and it reproduces sexually with seeds . 

Yellowroot is comparatively rare in British gardens , although E.H. Wilson and E.A. 

Bowles are among distinguished plantsmen to have championed its merits . 

It was grown by Bowles in his garden at Myddelton House , near Enfield , Middlesex , and gardens that currently cultivate it include the Savill Garden at Windsor , Berkshire and the Westonbirt Arboretum near Tetbury , Gloucestershire . 

Wilson , who regarded yellowroot as one of the best plants for hardy deciduous ground cover , also described ( in 1923 ) its use in the Arnold Arboretum at Harvard University in Massachusetts . 

Yellowroot is considered an endangered species in Florida . 


