Rudolf Wolters ( August 3 , 1903   – January 7 , 1983 ) was a German architect and government official , known for his longtime association with fellow architect and Third Reich official Albert Speer . 

A friend and subordinate of Speer , Wolters received the many papers which were smuggled out of Spandau Prison for Speer while he was imprisoned there , and kept them for him until Speer was released in 1966 . 

After Speer 's release , the friendship slowly collapsed , Wolters objecting strongly to Speer 's blaming of Hitler and other Nazis for the Jewish Holocaust and World War II , and they saw nothing of each other in the decade before Speer 's death in 1981 . 

Wolters , who was born to a Catholic middle - class family in the northern German town of Coesfeld , obtained his degree and doctorate in architecture from the Technical University of Berlin , forging a close friendship with Speer while a student . 

After receiving his doctorate , he had difficulty finding employment prior to the Nazi rise to power . 

From 1933 to 1937 , he worked for the Reichsbahn . 

In 1937 , Speer hired him as a department head , and Wolters soon took major responsibility for Hitler 's plan for the large scale reconstruction of Berlin . 

When Speer became Minister of Armaments and War Production in 1942 , Wolters moved to his department , remaining his close associate . 

After Speer 's indictment and imprisonment for war crimes , Wolters stood by him . 

In addition to receiving and organizing Speer 's clandestine notes from Spandau , which later served as the basis of his best - selling books of memoirs , Wolters quietly raised money for Speer . 

These funds were used to support Speer 's family and for other purposes , according to directions which Wolters received from his former superior . 

Following Speer 's release in 1966 , their friendship gradually deteriorated , until the two men became so embittered that Wolters allowed papers demonstrating Speer 's knowledge of the persecution of the Jews to become public in 1980 . 

Wolters was involved in the reconstruction of West Germany following World War II , rebuilding his hometown of Coesfeld among many other projects . 

Wolters wrote several architectural books during the war , as well as a biography of Speer . 


