During presidential elections in the United States , it has become customary for the main candidates ( almost always the candidates of the two largest parties , currently the Democratic Party and the Republican Party ) to engage in a debate . 

The topics discussed in the debate are often the most controversial issues of the time , and arguably elections have been nearly decided by these debates ( e.g. , Nixon vs. Kennedy ) . 

Candidate debates are not constitutionally mandated , but it is now considered a de facto election process . 

The debates are targeted mainly at undecided voters ; those who tend not to be partial to any political ideology or party . 

Presidential debates are held late in the election cycle , after the political parties have nominated their candidates . 

The candidates meet in a large hall , often at a university , before an audience of citizens . 

The formats of the debates have varied , with questions sometimes posed from one or more journalist moderators and in other cases members of the audience . 

Between 1988 and 2000 , the formats have been governed in detail by secret memoranda of understanding ( MOU ) between the two major candidates ; an MOU for 2004 was also negotiated , but unlike the earlier agreements it was jointly released by the two candidates . 

Debates have been broadcast live on television , radio , and in recent years , the web . 

The first debate for the 1960 election drew over 66 million viewers out of a population of 179 million , making it one of the most - watched broadcasts in U.S. television history . 

The 1980 debates drew 80 million viewers out of a population of 226 million . 

Recent debates have drawn decidedly smaller audiences , ranging from 46 million for the first 2000 debate to a high of over 67 million for the first debate in 2012 . 

A record - breaking audience of over 84 million people watched the first 2016 presidential debate between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton , a number that does not reflect online streaming . 


