The , sometimes known as the Japanese Revolution , was a civil war in Japan , fought from 1868 to 1869 between forces of the ruling Tokugawa shogunate and those seeking to return political power to the Imperial Court . 

The war found its origins in dissatisfaction among many nobles and young samurai with the shogunate 's handling of foreigners following the opening of Japan during the prior decade . 

Increasing Western influence in the economy led to a decline similar to other Asian countries at the time . 

An alliance of western samurai , particularly the domains of Chōshū , Satsuma and Tosa , and court officials , secured control of the Imperial Court and influenced the young Emperor Meiji . 

Tokugawa Yoshinobu , the sitting shōgun , realizing the futility of his situation , abdicated political power to the emperor . 

Yoshinobu had hoped that by doing this , the Tokugawa house could be preserved and participate in the future government . 

However , military movements by imperial forces , partisan violence in Edo , and an imperial decree promoted by Satsuma and Chōshū abolishing the house of Tokugawa led Yoshinobu to launch a military campaign to seize the emperor 's court in Kyoto . 

The military tide rapidly turned in favor of the smaller but relatively modernized imperial faction , and after a series of battles culminating in the surrender of Edo , Yoshinobu personally surrendered . 

Those loyal to the Tokugawa retreated to northern Honshū and later to Hokkaidō , where they founded the Ezo republic . 

Defeat at the Battle of Hakodate broke this last holdout and left the imperial rule supreme throughout the whole of Japan , completing the military phase of the Meiji Restoration . 

Around 120,000 men were mobilised during the conflict , and of these about 3,500 were killed . 

In the end , the victorious imperial faction abandoned its objective to expel foreigners from Japan and instead adopted a policy of continued modernization with an eye to eventual renegotiation of the unequal treaties with the Western powers . 

Due to the persistence of Saigō Takamori , a prominent leader of the imperial faction , the Tokugawa loyalists were shown clemency , and many former shogunate leaders and samurai were later given positions of responsibility under the new government . 

When the Boshin War began , Japan was already modernizing , following the same course of advancement as that of the industrialized Western nations . 

Since Western nations , especially the United Kingdom and France , were deeply involved in the country 's politics , the installation of Imperial power added more turbulence to the conflict . 

Over time , the war has been romanticized as a " bloodless revolution " , because of the small number of casualties . 


